TITL:: Eyewear with rigid lens support
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661562
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 13465272
APDT:: 20120507
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 666
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 1446
INVS:: CALILUNG RYAN|JANAVICIUS JASON
APLS:: CALILUNG RYAN|JANAVICIUS JASON
LREP:: KNOBBE MARTENS OLSON & BEAR, LLP
ASSE:: OAKLEY, INC.
EXMR:: OSTRUP CLINTON T|SUTTON ANDREW W
NCLS:: 13
NCLI:: 3
NCLD:: 10
NFIG:: 80
DSCL:: 26810
SUML:: 2714
BKGL:: 545
DDRL:: 2962
DDSL:: 25650
CLFL:: 179
CLIL:: 180
CLDL:: 209
NREF:: 278
NRFA:: 272
NRFX:: 6
IPCC:: A-A-61-F-9-00-F-I
USCC::   2 12|351 86||  2452|351 86|351103|  2  9|351106|  2425|  2426-427|  2429||  2431||  2438||  2439||  2441||  2442||  2443||  2445||  2446||  2454||  2 12||351 44||351103-109|351 83||351 86||351121||351140||351141||351153|| 16228|
SFLD::   2426-427|  2429|  2431|  2438|  2439|  2441|  2442|  2443|  2445|  2446|  2454|  2 12|351 44|351103-109|351 83|351 86|351121|351140|351141|351153| 16228
RLDX:: CON:13051889:20110318:13465272|PRV:61315752:20100319|PRV:61426222:20101222|XXX:20120218507:20120830
NRLD:: 4
NPRV:: 2
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: Eyewear is provided having a frame that can releasably engage a lens. The frame can have an engagement mechanism that includes an active restraint member and a passive restraint member. The active restraint member can have a first component and a second component that are operatively coupled together such that the first and second components rotate together between open and closed positions. The second component can also be configured to slide relative to the first component to engage a portion the frame when the first and second components are in the closed position to maintain the lens fitted against the frame.
DHXX:: CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
DDXX:: This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13/051,889, filed on Mar. 18, 2011, which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/315,752, filed Mar. 19, 2010 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/426,222, filed Dec. 22, 2010, the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND
DDBK:: 1. Field of the Inventions
DDBK:: The present inventions relate generally to eyewear and more specifically to eyeglass and goggle frames, having improved comfort and fit.
DDBK:: 2. Description of the Related Art
DDBK:: A wide variety of improvements have been made in recent years in the eyewear field, particularly with respect to eyewear intended for use in active sports, including goggles and sunglasses. These improvements have been incorporated into eyewear and goggles having both dual and unitary lens designs. As a result, modern active sport eyewear is functionally superior to its predecessor eyewear in numerous ways, such as by maximizing interception of peripheral light, reducing optical distortion, and increasing the wearer's comfort level.
DDBK:: For example, lens designs for both dual and unitary eyewear and goggle designs can provide full side-to-side range of vision and good lateral eye protection while providing superior optical performance. More particularly, in a unitary lens system, the angle of incidence from the wearer's eye to the posterior lens surface changes as the wearer's line of sight turns in either the vertical or the horizontal planes. This results in disparate refraction between light entering closer to the front of the lens and peripheral light entering at the side portions. To address this source of prismatic distortion, U.S. Pat. No. 4,859,048 discloses tapering the thickness of the lens from the central portion toward the side edge, the entirety of the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
DDBK:: Further, various improvements have also been made in goggle lens frame technology that allow mounted lenses to retain their superior optical characteristics provided by their as-molded geometry. For example, the "SPLICE" snow goggle manufactured by Oakley, Inc., incorporates a frame design that mitigates bending stresses along the bridge of the goggle in order to allow the lens to retain its as-molded geometry and maximize the comfort for the wearer. Such systems are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/359,175, titled Controlled Deflection Goggle, filed Jan. 23, 2009, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
DDBK:: Finally, numerous modifications have been made to eyeglass and goggle products in an effort to make these products more comfortable for the wearer. For example, different materials have been used in the manufacture of frames and lenses in order to decrease the weight and improve the comfort of these products. These technological improvements can be incorporated into any variety of dual or unitary lens designs, whether for eyeglass or goggle products, in order to provide a wearer with a comfortable, optically superior eyewear product.
DDBK:: Further features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art in view of the detailed description of preferred embodiments which follows, when considered together with the attached drawings and claims.
DHSM:: SUMMARY
DDSM:: A goggle is a semi-customizable eyewear product that can be adjusted to fit a wearer's head by adjusting a strap of the goggle. Further, an eyeglass can also be customized to the wearer through adjusting the fit and/or components of the eyeglass for achieving a desired function. Goggle and eyeglass applications include skiing, snowboarding, motocross, aquatics, and a variety of industrial safety applications, among others. Typically, goggles offer sealed protection to the eyes and adjacent areas of the wearer's face against particulate matter or water. Generally, the goggle and/or lens conforms closely to the wearer's face and intercepts light, wind, dust, etc. from directly in front of the wearer and peripherally along the sides. A wearer can adjust the elastic strap of the goggle to conform closely to the face of the wearer during use. Various features and structures of eyewear are disclosed herein. Some of these features and structures are disclosed in the context of goggles. For sake of brevity, the embodiments and discussion will not generally be repeated with respect to eyeglasses. However, the discussion of a given feature of a goggle herein is contemplated as being applicable to eyeglasses as well.
DDSM:: A goggle usually comprises an arcuate unitary lens which extends across both of the wearer's right and left eye fields of view. The lens can be supported by a frame, which typically surrounds the lens. The lens and the frame are both configured with a downwardly concave indent or nosepiece opening for receiving the nose. The rear surface of the frame, normally covered with a foam component or other compressible material, is adapted to contact the wearer's face. Further, the elastic strap is connected to the opposing sides or ends of the frame so that the wearer can fit and wear the goggle on their head.
DDSM:: When worn, the surface of the foam component or other compressible material disposed at the rear of the goggle makes contact with the wearer's face. This wearer-contacting surface has a radius of curvature in the horizontal plane that is adapted to conform from side to side of the wearer's face. However, some embodiments reflect the realization that when the goggle is placed on a wearer with a "narrow" head, the tension from the straps extending around the back of the wearer's head can cause the sides of the goggle to bend inwardly toward a center thereof, thereby wrapping the goggle into a tighter radius of curvature to fit the wearer and distorting the optics of the goggle. Further, the central portion of the goggle can become substantially compressed against the wearer's forehead while a gap is formed between the sides of the goggle and the wearer's temples. Other poor fit or discomfort problems can occur when a goggle is placed on a wearer with a "wide" head or when the goggle is worn over a helmet.
DDSM:: Thus, some embodiments reflect the realization that the lens of a goggle can sometimes experience undesirable distortion when the goggle is fitted to a wearer's unique head profile. This distortion can sometimes cause discomfort for the wearer as well as inferior optical performance of the eyewear product. Various embodiments enable the eyewear product to exhibit enhanced structural properties in order to prevent discomfort and to maintain preferred optical characteristics of the eyewear product.
DDSM:: Further, some embodiments reflect the realization that a customizable goggle system can be far more effective and useful to a wearer than prior art goggles because a wearer's needs and preferences may change from time to time. Thus, in some embodiments, the goggle can comprise an interchangeable goggle and goggle system in which a lens support or anterior module can be interchangeably coupled with a faceplate or posterior module. In some embodiments, the goggle and goggle system can also comprise at least one connector that couples the anterior module to the posterior module. The components of such a goggle and system can be interchanged in order to create a goggle having desired optical and physical characteristics. For example, the wearer can interchange one or more components of the goggle in order vary the rake, internal air volume, articulation, lens configuration, fit, comfort, and other such optical and physical characteristics of the goggle.
DDSM:: Further, some of the embodiments reflect the realization that prior art goggles tend to create uneven pressure distribution across a variety of wearers' heads. Thus, in some embodiments, the goggle can be configured such that the posterior module of the goggle can articulate relative to the anterior module in order to self-adjust over a variety of unique facial contours and head sizes in order to provide a customized fit to the wearer. In some embodiments, the goggle can comprise an isostatic mechanism or suspension mechanism in which one or more connectors allow the posterior module to articulate with respect to the anterior module. For example, the posterior module can be coupled to the anterior module using any of a variety of connectors, such as wishbone connectors, straight links, expandable cells, pivotable couplings, rigid couplings, and the like.
DDSM:: Additionally, some of the embodiments reflect the realization that prior art goggles generally caused deflection of the lens when the goggle is fitted onto the head of the wearer. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the goggle can be configured such that the anterior module comprises a generally rigid component or portion such that bending stresses exerted on the anterior module are withstood when the goggle is being worn. Thus, the lens of the goggle can be maintained in its as-molded configuration when in use, thereby preserving the optical quality of the lens. In some embodiments, prismatic shift or other optical distortions are minimized when in use.
DDSM:: Furthermore, some of the embodiments reflect the realization that prior art goggles do not facilitate interchangeability of lenses absent a significant stress or force to remove or replace the lens. Thus, in some embodiments, the goggle can comprise an interchangeable lens mechanism that allows a lens to be interchanged with and retained by the goggle. For example, the anterior module of the goggle can comprise one or more pockets or clips that can operate to retain one or more of the edges or sides of the lens. The lens can be retained by the interchangeable lens mechanism such that the lens "floats" or is secured to the anterior module without being bended from its as-molded configuration. Thus, the optical qualities of the lens can be preserved.
DDSM:: One or more of the features discussed herein can be incorporated into embodiments of the goggles. As such, any variety of combinations of these features can be provided as will be apparent to one of skill in the art.
DDSM:: Moreover, in some embodiments, a goggle is provided that can comprise a lens support or anterior module and a faceplate or posterior module. The lens support can be adapted to support at least one lens in a wearer's field of view. The faceplate can be flexible and adapted to conform to the contours of a wearer's face. In some embodiments, the lens support or anterior module can be interchangeably connectable with the faceplate or posterior module to modify at least one physical characteristic of the goggle.
DDSM:: In some embodiments, the faceplate can be coupled to the lens support such that when the goggle is worn by the wearer, opposing ends of the flexible faceplate move in a direction opposite to a direction in which a central portion of the faceplate moves when a force is exerted on one of the opposing portions and the central portion of the faceplate. Further, in some embodiments, in response to a force, the opposing ends of the flexible faceplate can move away from the opposing ends of the lens support while a central portion of the faceplate moves toward a central portion of the lens support. Further, the side portions of the faceplate can move generally independently of each other.
DDSM:: Some embodiments can comprise a suspension assembly that can comprise one or more suspension members or connectors that interconnect the flexible faceplate with the lens support at respective suspension points. In some embodiments, the at least one connector can be interchangeable with the lens support and the faceplate.
DDSM:: For example, the suspension members can enable pivotable movement of the faceplate relative to the lens support at the respective suspension points to modify a contour of the faceplate relative to the contour of the wearer's face. The suspension members can be substantially incompressible. The suspension members can comprise one of a wishbone connector, a curved or straight link connector, an expandable cell connector, and other such components. One or more suspension members may also be positioned in a manner that allows rolling or a "seesaw" effect as it responds to pressure on the frame. The goggle can optionally comprise at least one elongate link member coupled to the faceplate adjacent to each of the respective suspension points. The link members can be coupled to the respective suspension members and to the faceplate for imparting rotation at a first part of the goggle to a second part of the goggle for moving the opposing ends of the faceplate in an opposite direction of the central portion thereof.
DDSM:: Further, the goggle can be optionally configured such that the suspension members comprise a pair of upper suspension members interconnecting an upper portion of the flexible faceplate with an upper portion of the lens support. The suspension members can also comprise a pair of lower suspension members interconnecting a lower portion of the flexible faceplate with a lower portion of the lens support. In such embodiments, the upper suspension members can be coupled to the faceplate and the lens support at locations generally symmetrically spaced from a center point or center line of the faceplate, such as adjacent to side portions thereof. Further, the lower suspension members can be coupled to the faceplate and the lens support at locations generally symmetrically spaced from a center point or center line of the faceplate, such as adjacent to side portions thereof.
DDSM:: Further in some embodiments, the goggle can optionally comprise at least one elongate link member coupled to the faceplate adjacent to each of the respective suspension points. The link members can be coupled to the respective suspension members and to the faceplate for imparting rotation at a first part of the goggle to a second part of the goggle for moving opposing ends of the faceplate in an opposite direction of the central portion thereof.
DDSM:: In embodiments comprising the suspension assembly, the goggle can optionally be configured with the suspension assembly coupling the flexible faceplate to the lens support such that movement of the central portion of the flexible faceplate toward the central portion of the lens support causes separation of the opposing portions of the faceplate from opposing portions of the lens support when the goggle is worn by the wearer. In such embodiments, the suspension assembly can comprise one or more suspension members.
DDSM:: Moreover, some embodiments of the goggle can be configured to comprise a generally rigid lens support or anterior module. The generally rigid lens support or anterior module can support a lens in the wearer's field of view while preventing substantial bending or optical distortion of the lens.
DDSM:: Additionally, the goggle can optionally comprise an interchangeable lens mechanism that facilitates removal and retention of a lens relative to the lens support or anterior module of the goggle. The interchangeable lens mechanism can comprise one or more pockets and/or clips that can engage with a portion of the lens for retaining the lens relative to the goggle.
DDSM:: In some embodiments, the goggle can comprise a pair of outriggers that each outrigger comprises a pair of fastening portions configured to interconnect the anterior module with the posterior module. The fastening portions can be attachable to the anterior and posterior modules at coupling regions thereof. The anterior and posterior modules of the goggle can be coupled together by the outriggers and without the use of specialized tools, single-use fasteners or permanent fasteners. In some embodiments, the outriggers can function as the primary mode of coupling or attachment means between the anterior and posterior modules, such as between a lens support and a faceplate. However, a secondary mode of coupling or attachment means can be employed, such as snap-fit members, hook and loop members, and/or other types of interference fit or frictional engagement members. These secondary connectors can be used in combination with the outriggers to couple the anterior and posterior modules together. In particular, these secondary connectors can be used as an initial coupling mechanism to hold the anterior and posterior modules together as an assembly while the outriggers are attached or detached from the assembly. Thus, the overall assembly, including the outriggers and other components discussed herein, can enable a wearer to quickly manipulate an interchange any given component of the assembly.
DDSM:: Further, the outriggers can each further comprise a pin member extending from a body thereof. In such an embodiment, the anterior module can comprise a pair of apertures that are configured to receive the pin members of the respective outriggers when the outriggers are coupled to the anterior and posterior modules. The combined interconnections of the pin members and the fastening portions of the outriggers can thus provide a fixed rotational position of each outrigger relative to the anterior module. Additionally, the posterior module can comprise apertures configured to receive the pin member when the outriggers are coupled to the anterior and posterior modules. In some embodiments, the coupling regions of the anterior module comprise a recess. For example, the recess can be configured to receive the fastening portions of the outriggers.
DDSM:: Some embodiments of the goggle can comprise a latch member that is coupled to the anterior module. The latch member can be rotatable between an open position in which a lens can be inserted or removed from the lens support and a closed position in which the lens is secured to the lens support. The goggle can also further comprise a biasing member coupled to the latch member. The biasing member can provide a biasing force tending to urge the latch member toward the closed position. The biasing member can be rotatably coupled to the latch member, and in some embodiments, the biasing member can also be rotatably coupled to the anterior module. Thus, in some embodiments, an outrigger can comprises a pin member extending through corresponding apertures in the biasing member and the latch member, and the pin member can provide an axis of rotation for the biasing member and the latch member.
DDSM:: In accordance with some embodiments, the goggle can comprise at least one port disposed along the periphery of the lens support. The port can provide an airflow passage for introducing air over an interconnecting portion of the goggle for improving ventilation and reducing fogging of the goggle. For example, the port can exhibit Venturi airflow characteristics. In some embodiments, the goggle can comprise a pair of ports disposed at the central portion of the lens support above the lens of the goggle.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: The above-mentioned and other features of the inventions disclosed herein are described below with reference to the drawings of the preferred embodiments. The illustrated embodiments are intended to illustrate, but not to limit the inventions. The drawings contain the following figures:
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a prior art goggle.
DDDR:: FIG. 2 is a front view of the goggle shown in FIG. 1.
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is a horizontal cross-sectional view taken along the lines 3-3 of FIG. 2.
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is a top view of the goggle of FIG. 1 wherein bending forces F, F are exerted on the goggle.
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is a top view of the goggle of FIG. 1 being worn on a narrow head.
DDDR:: FIG. 6 is a top view of the goggle of FIG. 1 being worn on a wide head.
DDDR:: FIG. 7 is an exploded perspective view of a goggle having interchangeable anterior and posterior components, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 8 is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 7.
DDDR:: FIG. 9 is a perspective view of a goggle having interchangeable anterior and posterior components shown in an assembled state, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 10 is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 9.
DDDR:: FIG. 11 is a perspective view of another goggle having interchangeable anterior and posterior components shown in an assembled state, according to another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 12 is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 11.
DDDR:: FIG. 13 is a top perspective view of a goggle having an isostatic faceplate with flexible connectors, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 14 is a bottom perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 13.
DDDR:: FIG. 15 is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 13, wherein the faceplate is in an undeflected position.
DDDR:: FIG. 16A is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 13, wherein the faceplate is in a narrowed deflected position.
DDDR:: FIG. 16B is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 13, wherein the faceplate is in a widened deflected position.
DDDR:: FIG. 17 is a top perspective view of another goggle having an isostatic faceplate with pivotable connectors, according to another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 18 is a bottom perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 17.
DDDR:: FIG. 19 is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 17, wherein the faceplate is in an undeflected position.
DDDR:: FIG. 20A is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 17, wherein the faceplate is in a narrowed deflected position.
DDDR:: FIG. 20B is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 17, wherein the faceplate is in a widened deflected position.
DDDR:: FIG. 21A is a partial top view schematic diagram of a partially pivotable straight connector for an isostatic faceplate wherein the connector is pivoted to a first position to accommodate a wide head, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 21B is a partial top view schematic diagram of the connector shown in FIG. 21A wherein the connector is pivoted to a second position to accommodate a narrow head.
DDDR:: FIG. 22A is a partial top view schematic diagram of the connector shown in FIG. 22A wherein the connector is pivoted to a first position to accommodate a large head.
DDDR:: FIG. 22B is a partial top view schematic diagram of a dual pivotable straight connector for an isostatic faceplate wherein the connector is pivoted to a second position to accommodate a small head, according to another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 23A is a partial top view schematic diagram of a wishbone connector for an isostatic faceplate wherein the connector is in an undeflected position, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 23B is a partial top view schematic diagram of the connector shown in FIG. 23A wherein the connector is pivoted to a first position.
DDDR:: FIG. 23C is a partial top view schematic diagram of the connector shown in FIG. 23A wherein the connector is pivoted to a second position.
DDDR:: FIG. 23D is a partial top view schematic diagram of the connector shown in FIG. 23A wherein the connector is pivoted to a third position.
DDDR:: FIG. 23E is a partial top view schematic diagram of the connector shown in FIG. 23A wherein the connector is pivoted to a fourth position.
DDDR:: FIG. 24A is a top view of a wishbone connector according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 24B is a top view of a wishbone connector according to another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 25A is a top view of a wishbone connector according to yet another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 25B is a top view of a wishbone connector according to yet another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 26 is a top view of an expandable cell connector according to yet another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 27 is a top view schematic diagram of a pair of wishbone connectors illustrating movement of the connectors, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 28 is a perspective view of a goggle having an interchangeable lens mechanism, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 29 is a front view of the goggle shown in FIG. 28.
DDDR:: FIG. 30 is a perspective view of a lens for use with the goggle shown in FIG. 28, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 31A is a perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 28 wherein the lens is being interchanged into the goggle, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 31B is a side perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 28 wherein a first side of the lens is inserted into a receptacle of the interchangeable lens mechanism, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 31C is a side perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 28 wherein the first side of the lens is inserted into the receptacle of the interchangeable lens mechanism and a second side of the lens is fitted against the goggle.
DDDR:: FIG. 31D is a perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 28 illustrating the second side of the lens being fitted against the goggle and a pivotable securing member in a disengaged position, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 31E is a perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 28 illustrating the second side of the lens being fitted against the goggle and the pivotable securing member in an engaged position, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 32 is a top cross-sectional view of the goggle shown in FIG. 28 illustrating engagement of the first side of the lens in the receptacle of the interchangeable lens mechanism, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 32A is an enlarged cross-sectional view of a portion of the goggle shown in FIG. 32.
DDDR:: FIG. 32B is another enlarged cross-sectional view of another portion of the goggle shown in FIG. 32.
DDDR:: FIG. 33 is a perspective view of a goggle having an interchangeable lens mechanism and an isostatic faceplate wherein the lens is separated from the goggle, according to another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 34A is a partial perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 33 illustrating a second side of the lens is being fitted against the goggle, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 34B is a partial perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 33 illustrating first and second securing members in disengaged positions, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 34C is a partial perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 33 illustrating the first and second securing members in engaged positions, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 35 is a top view schematic diagram of a rigid anterior frame of a goggle, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 36 is a perspective of a goggle, according to another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 37 is a side perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 36, wherein an engagement mechanism of the goggle is in a closed position.
DDDR:: FIG. 38 is a side perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 36, wherein the engagement mechanism of the goggle is in an open position.
DDDR:: FIG. 39 is a perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 36, wherein the engagement mechanism is in the open position and a lens assembly of the goggle is separated from the goggle.
DDDR:: FIG. 40A is a side view of a biasing mechanism of the goggle shown in FIG. 36, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 40B is an end view of the biasing mechanism shown in FIG. 40A.
DDDR:: FIG. 40C is a perspective view of the biasing mechanism shown in FIG. 40A.
DDDR:: FIG. 41A is a rear perspective view of a latch mechanism of the goggle shown in FIG. 36, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 41B is a front perspective view of the latch mechanism shown in FIG. 41A.
DDDR:: FIG. 42 is a perspective view of the lens assembly of the goggle shown in FIG. 36, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 43 is a cross-sectional side view of the lens assembly shown in FIG. 42.
DDDR:: FIG. 44 is a top view of the goggle shown in FIG. 36, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 45 is a cross-sectional side view of the goggle taken along section lines 45-45 of FIG. 44.
DDDR:: FIG. 46 is a front perspective view of an isostatic posterior frame component of the goggle shown in FIG. 36, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 47 is a side perspective view illustrating secondary or initial attachment of the isostatic posterior frame component of FIG. 46 with a frame of the goggle shown in FIG. 36, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 48A is a front perspective view of the outrigger of the goggle shown in FIG. 44, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 48B is a rear perspective view of the outrigger shown in FIG. 48A.
DDDR:: FIG. 49 is a top perspective view of the goggle shown in FIG. 44, wherein an outrigger is shown in a detached position.
DDDR:: FIG. 50 is a side view of the goggle shown in FIG. 44, wherein the outrigger is being attached to the goggle, according to an embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 51 is a perspective across-sectional view of the goggle taken along section lines 51-51 of FIG. 44.
DDDR:: FIG. 52 is a perspective view of an eyeglass, according to another embodiment.
DDDR:: FIG. 53 is a perspective view of the eyeglass shown in FIG. 50, wherein an engagement mechanism is in the open position and a lens of the eyeglass is separated from the eyeglass.
DDDR:: FIG. 54 is a side perspective view of the eyeglass shown in FIG. 50, wherein the engagement mechanism of the eyeglass is in an open position.
DDDR:: FIG. 55 is a rear perspective view of the eyeglass shown in FIG. 50, wherein the engagement mechanism of the eyeglass is in an open state and a latch member is in a disengaged position.
DDDR:: FIG. 56 is a rear perspective view of the eyeglass shown in FIG. 50, wherein the engagement mechanism of the eyeglass is in a closed state and the latch member is in the disengaged position.
DDDR:: FIG. 57 is a rear perspective view of the eyeglass shown in FIG. 50, wherein the engagement mechanism of the eyeglass is in the closed state and the latch member is in an engaged position.
DDDR:: FIG. 58 is a top cross sectional view taken along lines 58-58 of FIG. 55, illustrating pivoting clearance of the engagement mechanism and the latch member in the disengaged position.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION
DDDD:: While the present description sets forth specific details of various embodiments, it will be appreciated that the description is illustrative only and should not be construed in any way as limiting. Additionally, although particular embodiments of the present inventions may be disclosed or shown in the context of unitary or dual lens eyewear systems, such embodiments can be used in both unitary and dual lens eyewear systems. Further, various applications of such embodiments and modifications thereto, which may occur to those who are skilled in the art, are also encompassed by the general concepts described herein. Furthermore, although various embodiments are shown in use with goggles, embodiments can also be used with eyeglasses and other forms of eyewear.
DDDD:: Some goggle embodiments are provided that overcome many of the disadvantages of the prior art, such as preferential bending, poor comfort, and optical distortion of the lens. Various embodiments are provided that can improve the overall comfort and fit of the goggle on a wide range of head geometries. Some embodiments are configured such that the goggle can actively self-adjust to the head geometry of a given wearer using an isostatic suspension mechanism. Some embodiments are configured with a rigid lens support such that the goggle can prevent bending of the lens and thereby prevent optical distortion. Further, some embodiments can comprise a lens retention mechanism that enables a lens to be quickly removed and replaced with another given lens. Various mechanisms and features for providing one or more of these advantages can be incorporated into various embodiments of the goggle.
DDDD:: Prior Art Goggle Design and Use
DDDD:: FIGS. 1-5 illustrate a common prior art goggle design and its use. FIG. 1 illustrates a goggle 10 that comprises a goggle frame 12, an elastic strap 14, and a foam component 16 attached to a posterior portion of the goggle frame 12. The goggle frame 12 also comprises an indent or nosepiece 18. In use, the wearer can position the goggle frame 12 onto her face and adjust the elastic strap 14 around the back of her head in order to firmly, but comfortably secure the goggle frame in place. FIG. 5 illustrate a top view of a wearer's head 40 onto which the goggle 10 has been placed.
DDDD:: The foam component 16 is intended to contact the wearer's face and allow the goggle 10 to conform to the surface of the wearer's face. However, gaps frequently form between the foam component 16 and the surface of the wearer's face due to the preferential bending of the goggle 10. Furthermore, certain portions of the foam component 16 can often be highly compressed while other portions are not compressed at all. In this regard, the foam component 16 will fail to properly distribute stresses along the surface of the wearer's face resulting in stress concentrations along the front or side of the wearer's head, such as along the forehead, temples, and cheekbones. Some embodiments reflect the realization that such stress concentrations are created due to the preferential bending of the goggle frame 12 and the poor adaptability of the goggle frame 12 to various head sizes.
DDDD:: FIG. 3 illustrates a cross sectional top view of the goggle 10. As shown, a lens 20 of the goggle 10 is mounted in the goggle frame 12. FIG. 3 illustrates the goggle frame 12 and the lens 20 in an unloaded position. In some embodiments, the goggle frame 12 and the lens 20 are not bent from their as-molded configuration. As such, at least side portions 22, 24 of the lens 20 can be configured to define a common center of curvature A in this example. In the as-molded configuration, a central section 26 of the lens 20 defines a preferred geometry that can provide desirable optical characteristics for the goggle 10. However, these desirable optical characteristics are not maintained when the goggle 10 is worn by the user in a loaded position.
DDDD:: FIG. 4 shows the lens 20 of the goggle 10 in the loaded position. The loaded position is generally assumed when the goggle 10 is positioned on the head of the wearer. As illustrated in FIG. 4, bending forces F, F can be exerted on the sides of the frame 12 and cause bending of the frame 12 and the lens 20. These forces F, F can be caused by the elastic strap 14 during use of the goggle 10 by the wearer.
DDDD:: When the goggle frame 12 and the lens 20 are bended to the loaded position, the goggles 10 generally exhibit preferential bending at a midpoint 28 of the lens 20. Some embodiments reflect the realization that a disadvantage of such preferential bending at the midpoint 28 of the lens 20 creates bending of the frame 12 at the nosepiece 18. As shown in FIG. 2, the nosepiece 18 has an unloaded geometry that defines a given width. Generally, the nosepiece 18 allows the wearer to comfortably position the goggle 10 on the bridge of the wearer's nose. However, preferential bending of the frame 12 will generally cause the width of the nosepiece 18 to decrease. As a result, the wearer's nose may be pinched and create discomfort for the wearer.
DDDD:: Additionally, the preferential bending also causes the centers of curvature of the side portions 22, 24 of the lens 20 to be significantly displaced from the common center of curvature A to the displaced centers of curvature B, C. The central section 26 of the lens 20 is also significantly deformed from its unloaded position. This deformation of the lens 20 substantially worsens the original or as-molded optical characteristics of the lens 20.
DDDD:: For example, the lens 20 can exhibit substantial prismatic shift and other optical distortions that tend to tire the eyes of the wearer and reduce the wearer's ability to accurately perceive the position of objects. These disadvantages may not only make use of the goggle 10 uncomfortable, but can potentially affect the wearer's performance of a given activity. In fast-paced activities, such as skiing, snowboarding, skydiving, motocross and the like, where goggles are commonly used, the disadvantages caused by preferential bending of the lens 20 and the frame 12 can be exacerbated.
DDDD:: FIGS. 5-6 illustrate yet other disadvantages of such a prior art goggle 10. The top view of FIG. 5 shows a goggle 10 fitted onto a narrow head 40, and FIG. 6 shows the goggle 10 fitted onto a wide head 42. When fitted on a narrow head 40, the goggle 10 can bend about a central section thereof, thus resulting in deformation of the lens and various significant disadvantages, such as those noted above with regard to FIG. 3. Further, centralized portions 62 of the foam component 16 can experience greater compression 44 than side portions 60, which may be generally uncompressed as indicated at 46. Because the wearer has a narrow head, a gap may be created between the sides of the wearer's head and side portions 60 of the goggle 10 as the goggle 10 is fitted against the wearer's head. This uneven fit can reduce the air volume within the goggle in the central section, which may reduce the anti-fogging effectiveness of the goggle 10. The uneven fit may also cause uneven pressure and discomfort against the head 40 of the wearer.
DDDD:: With regard to FIG. 6, when fitted on a wide head 42, the goggle may again experience bending of the lens 20 (albeit toward a larger radius of curvature, which still results in optical distortion). Further, due to the preferential bending of the goggle 10, the foam component 16 can often experience excessive compression 48 along side portions 60 of the foam component 16. Additionally, centralized portions 62 of the foam component 16 may actually be separated from the wearer's forehead 64 by a gap 66. Although the gap 66 may be minor, such gapping can be problematic in inclement weather or water-related applications, as may be present in skiing and scuba diving. In such applications, gapping can cause impaired vision. Further, the uneven compression of the foam component 16 can create uneven pressure and discomfort against the head 42 of the wearer. As a result, the wearer can generally experience greater discomfort and fatigue.
DDDD:: Interchangeable Component Goggle Embodiments
DDDD:: Some embodiments reflect the realization that in many situations, the goggle 10 may bend as it is fitted onto a wearer's head, thus resulting in deformation of the lens 20, a poor fit that creates uneven pressure and discomfort across the wearer's head, and/or reduced anti-fogging capabilities. Additionally, some embodiments reflect the realization that the orientation of the goggle 10 with respect to the wearer's line of sight may be difficult to precisely adjust. Thus, the wearer may be at a disadvantage in performing activities in which vision could be enhanced by precisely adjusting the orientation of the lens (such as the "rake" of the lens).
DDDD:: Accordingly, some embodiments provide a manner for improving the comfort, fit, optical quality, anti-fogging, and/or customization and interchangeability of components of a goggle. Some embodiments can provide a goggle that includes an anterior module or lens support that can be interchanged with a posterior module. For example, one or more anterior modules (or lens supports) can be interchangeable with one or more posterior modules (or faceplates, which can be fitted against the face of a wearer).
DDDD:: Some embodiments can provide a goggle that includes an isostatic faceplate configured to provide uniform pressure distribution of the face-contacting portion of the goggle against the face of the wearer across a range of head sizes. Such embodiments can mitigate uneven pressure distribution by allowing differential adjustability of a posterior module relative to an anterior module of the goggle.
DDDD:: Some embodiments can also provide a goggle in which the anterior module or lens support is operative to support the lens of the goggle in an undeflected or optically preferred orientation to optimize the optical qualities of the lens. For example, at least a portion of the anterior module or lens support can be substantially rigid to prevent bending of the lens. Further, some embodiments can provide a goggle at having a quick release lens mechanism.
DDDD:: These and other features can be incorporated into a single goggle or used independently of each other to provide for a plurality of distinct goggle embodiments.
DDDD:: Some embodiments of the goggle can comprise separable components that can be interchangeably used in order to customize the goggle to the wearer's preferences. In some embodiments, the goggle can comprise separable components that can be interchangeably used to modify a mechanical and/or cosmetic feature of the goggle.
DDDD:: For example, separable components can be interchangeably used to modify at least one of the "rake" of the lens, the enclosed air volume capacity within the goggle, structural relationship between the anterior module and the posterior module, the articulation between the anterior module and the posterior module, the biasing of the posterior module, the fit of the goggle, and other mechanical and/or cosmetic features.
DDDD:: FIGS. 7-12 show an embodiment of a goggle 100. The goggle 100 can comprise a lens support or anterior module 102, a posterior module 104, and at least one connector 106 extending between the anterior module 102 and the posterior module. The anterior module 102 can support a lens in the wearer's field of view. In some embodiments, the anterior module 102 can be flexible. However, in some embodiments, the anterior module 102 can comprise at least one substantially rigid component and/or frame that supports or maintains the lens in a manner that prevents distortion of the lens under normal use conditions.
DDDD:: FIGS. 7 and 8 illustrate the goggle 100 in a disassembled state, and FIGS. 9-10 illustrate the goggle 100 in an assembled state wherein the connector(s) 106 is coupled with the anterior module 102 and the posterior module 104. FIGS. 11-12 illustrate another embodiment of a goggle in an assembled state wherein a different embodiment of the connector(s) 106 is coupled with an anterior module 102 and a posterior module 104.
DDDD:: The components of the goggle can be interchangeable or replaceable with other components. The posterior module 104 can be configured to be interchangeable and removably attachable to the anterior module 102. One or more anterior modules 102 can be interchanged with a plurality of posterior modules 104 in order to provide a variable and customizable configuration depending on user preferences. Further, a common anterior module 102 can be interchangeable with one of a variety of posterior modules 104. For example, the goggle 100 can be configured such that the wearer can interchange components of the goggle 100 in order to adjust the goggle 100 to modify a fit between the anterior module 102 and the posterior module 104, a configuration of the anterior module 102 and/or the posterior module 104, and/or an interconnection between the anterior module 102 and the posterior module 104.
DDDD:: As noted above, the goggle 100 can comprise the connector(s) 106. The connector(s) 106 can releasably or permanently couple the anterior module 102 with the posterior module 104. The connector(s) 106 can comprise either a movable or fixed component that interconnects the anterior module 102 with the posterior module 104. The connector(s) 106 can extend partially or completely around a perimeter of the anterior module 102 and/or the posterior module 104.
DDDD:: The configuration of the connector(s) 106 can be modified or interchanged to directly influence the fit between the anterior and posterior modules and/or the manner in which the posterior module and/or the anterior module functions in the goggle. The configuration of the connector(s) 106 may be varied while the configuration of the posterior and/or anterior module remains constant. In some embodiments, both the configuration of the connector(s) 106 and the configuration of the posterior and/or anterior module can be varied. The connector(s) 106 can also be configured in a variety of different connection modes and purposes. Thus, in this and other embodiments disclosed and discussed further herein, the movement of the posterior module can be performed substantially independently of movement of the anterior module. Thus, in embodiments, the posterior module may flex and be shaped to the face of the wearer to maximize comfort and fit while the anterior module is maintained in a substantially undeflected state, thus avoiding optical distortion of a lens (whether dual or unitary) supported by the anterior module.
DDDD:: For example, the connector(s) 106 can be configured to provide a rigid, stationary, or fixed relationship between the connector(s) 106 and the anterior and/or posterior modules 102, 104. In such embodiments, the connector(s) 106 can establish a spacing, position, or orientation of the posterior module 104 relative to the anterior module 102. Further, the connector(s) 106 can be interchanged to modify the spacing, position, or orientational relationship between the anterior and posterior modules 102, 104.
DDDD:: Further, in some embodiments, the connector(s) 106 can also be configured to provide a flexible, movable, rotatable, translatable, or pivotable relationship between the connector(s) 106 and the anterior and/or posterior modules 102, 104. For example, the connector(s) 106 can be coupled to the anterior module 102 and to the posterior module 104 in a manner that allows the connector(s) 106 to move or rotate relative to at least one of the anterior module 102 and the posterior module 104. In this manner, the connector(s) 106 can enable the posterior module 104 to flex, move, rotate, translate, or pivot relative to at least one of the anterior module 102. In this manner, the goggle 100 can provide an independent suspension or isostatic mechanism that can equalize or evenly distribute the pressure of the goggle along and against the areas at which the goggle contacts the face of the wearer. The independent suspension or isostatic mechanism can provide differential adjustability of the posterior module relative to the anterior module in order to equalize pressure distribution exerted by the posterior module against the head of the wearer.
DDDD:: Further, in some embodiments, the connector(s) 106 can be interchangeable with the goggle 100 in order to provide a different connection mode and/or a customizable configuration depending on wearer preferences. For example, different embodiments of the at least one connector(s) 106 can be interchanged with the goggle (such as shown in the embodiments shown in FIGS. 9-12).
DDDD:: The connector(s) 106 can be formed separately from the anterior and posterior modules 102, 104. The connector(s) 106 can be removable from the goggle and interchangeable in order to allow the wearer to adjust a given characteristic of the goggle. Further, the connector(s) 106 can be coupled to one of the posterior module 104 and anterior module 102 in a manner that allows relative movement between the connector(s) 106 and at least one of the posterior module 104 and the anterior module 102. In some embodiments, the ends of the connector(s) 106 can be attached to the anterior and/or posterior modules 102, 104 by means of thermal bonding, adhesive bonding, mechanical engagement, and/or other coupling methods known in the art. Various embodiments are shown in FIGS. 11-23E, which will be discussed further below.
DDDD:: However, in some embodiments, the connector(s) 106 can also be monolithically formed with either of the anterior or posterior modules 102, 104.
DDDD:: The connector(s) 106 can also comprise one or more subcomponents, for example, that can articulate with respect to each other to provide an articulating connector(s) 106. Further, the connector(s) 106 can be formed from various types of materials, for example, to provide rigidity, flexibility, compressibility, or other desirable mechanical or material characteristics. Thus, the connector(s) 106 can comprise pivotable links, rigid links, flexible bodies, leaf springs, coil springs, rigid bodies, compressible bodies, rod-shaped bodies, wishbone-shaped bodies, diamond-shaped bodies, gaskets, and/or expandable cells.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the goggle 100 can comprise a single connector 106. For example, a single connector 106 can be in the form of a gasket, pad, or other unitary structure that extends about the periphery of the anterior and posterior modules 102, 104 and interconnects the anterior and posterior modules 102, 104. Further, in some embodiments, the goggle can comprise multiple connectors 106.
DDDD:: As shown in FIGS. 7-10, in some embodiments, the connector(s) 106 can interconnect with respective anterior and posterior connection points 108, 110 located on the respective ones of the anterior and posterior modules 102, 104. The anterior and posterior connection points 108, 110 can provide a rigid, stationary, or fixed relationship between the connector(s) 106 and the anterior and/or posterior modules 102, 104 and/or a movable, rotatable, translatable, or pivotable relationship between the connector(s) 106 and the anterior and/or posterior modules 102, 104.
DDDD:: The anterior and posterior connection points 108, 110 can be formed in a variety of configurations. For example, in the illustrated embodiment of FIGS. 7-10, the anterior and posterior connection points 108, 110 can comprise a complementary surface structure such as a recess or socket that is configured to engage a corresponding surface structure on the connector(s) 106. Further, in some embodiments, the anterior and posterior connection points 108, 110 can comprise protrusions that extend rearwardly and anteriorly, respectively, which can be configured to engage with the connector(s) 106. Nevertheless, any of the anterior connection points and/or the posterior connection points can comprise a protrusion, recess, or socket for coupling with the connector(s).
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the configuration of the anterior and posterior connection points 108, 110 can be modified to directly influence the manner in which the connector(s), the posterior module, and/or the anterior module function in the goggle. In some embodiments, the configuration of the anterior and posterior connection points 108, 110 may be the only variable while the configuration of the posterior and/or anterior module remains constant. In some embodiments, both the configuration of the posterior and/or anterior connectors and the configuration of the posterior and/or anterior module can be varied.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 8, the faceplate or posterior module 104 of the goggle 100 can extend between a first lateral edge 105 and a second lateral edge 107. The direct line distance, in the nature of a secant to the curvature of the faceplate, will, in a properly fitting goggle, correspond to the width of the wearer's face at the point of contact between lateral edges 105 and 107, and the wearer's head. That secant length in an unstressed goggle will typically be within the range of between at least about 4 inches and/or less than or equal to about 7 inches. Often, the range can be between at least about 51/2 and/or less than or equal to at least about 61/2 inches. In accordance with some embodiments, the secant distance between lateral edges 105 and 107 may be varied by at least about 0.5 inches, and generally between at least about 1 inch and/or less than or equal to about 2 inches, without changing the curvature of the lens.
DDDD:: As discussed below, embodiments of a goggle system can be provided in which at least one of the anterior module 102, the posterior module 104, and/or the connector(s) 106 can be selectively interchangeable by the wearer to customize at least one of the characteristics of the goggle.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the goggle system can comprise a plurality of components, connectors, anterior modules, and/or posterior modules having different geometric characteristics that can induce a desired "rake" in the goggle. For example, the goggle system can comprise a plurality of posterior modules 104 having different geometric characteristics that induce a desired "rake" in the goggle. The "rake" of the goggle generally refers to the orientation of the lens relative to a vertical line. An adjustment in the rake of the goggle can allow the wearer to adjust an optical centerline of the lens such that the optical centerline is displaced away from a normal straight-ahead line of sight toward an activity-specific line of sight of the wearer.
DDDD:: For example, some embodiments can allow the rake of the goggle to be customized for activities in which the wearer frequently gazes downwardly relative to the straight-ahead line of sight (to view the path immediately in front of the wearer) or upwardly relative to the wearer's straight-ahead line of sight. By adjusting the optical centerline to correspond more closely to the activity-specific line of sight, the wearer can minimize image shift or prismatic distortion that occurs when the wearer's gaze (i.e. the activity-specific line of sight) passes across the lens. This can be advantageous for sports that require quick reaction times and frequent monitoring of the terrain in front of the wearer, such as downhill skiing, snowboarding, motocross, and the like.
DDDD:: The rake of the goggle can be adjusted such that the optical centerline of the lens is approximately parallel with the activity-specific line of sight. Further, the rake of the goggle can be adjusted such that the optical centerline of the lens is approximately coaxial with the activity-specific line of sight.
DDDD:: Accordingly, in some embodiments, a posterior module can attach with an anterior module and position the lens from the wearer's head at a different vortex distance than that of another posterior module. In particular, different posterior modules can be interchanged to allow the wearer to induce a different rake in the goggle depending on which posterior module is used. Further, different connectors or anterior modules can also be interchanged to allow the wearer to induce a different rake or to otherwise affect the geometry or spacing of the goggle relative to the wearer's face. The difference in spacing or position can be created due to geometric properties of at least one of the posterior module, the anterior module, and/or connectors between the posterior module and the anterior module.
DDDD:: Some embodiments of the goggle system can comprise a plurality of components, connectors, anterior modules, and/or posterior modules that each result in different air volumes within the goggle in order to adjust the anti-fogging capabilities of the goggle. As will be appreciated, the larger the volume of air within the goggle, the lower the likelihood of fogging of the lens of the goggle under a given set of conditions.
DDDD:: For example, depending on the activity, a wearer may remove and replace a given posterior module with another posterior module that increases or decreases the volume of air trapped within the goggle between the lens and the wearer's face. In some embodiments, the connectors, anterior modules, and/or posterior modules can be configured to adjust the space between the anterior module and the wearer's face, such as by varying thickness of padding, thickness of the body of the posterior module, and/or varying the length and/or size of connector(s) used between the posterior module and the anterior module.
DDDD:: Further, the goggle system can comprise a plurality of different components, connectors, anterior modules, and/or posterior modules that can allow a wearer to select between various types of materials, material or mechanical properties, design features, and sizes. In some embodiments, the connectors or components can be formed to provide a minimal or low-profile goggle appearance. The connectors or components can be configured to provide a minimal overall goggle thickness.
DDDD:: For example, posterior modules can be provided in small, medium, large, and extra large sizes in order to allow a wearer to obtain a tailored to fit for their goggle. Each has dynamic conformability through a range of head sizes or geometries. In some embodiments, the posterior modules can be configured to provide biasing toward a desired default position, such as being biased inwardly (for narrow head sizes), outwardly (for wide head sizes), toward a center thereof, frustoconically, cylindrically, spherically, or toward a standard position (for average head sizes). Thus, a posterior module can be configured to assume an undeflected, biased position from which the posterior module can be deflected when the goggle it is positioned on the face of the wearer. The undeflected, biased position can be selected to improve the fit and conformance of the posterior module for a given head shape.
DDDD:: Further, the posterior modules can also be selected based on the thickness, width, material, and configuration of padding of the posterior module. Moreover, some embodiments can allow wearers to incorporate electronics, such as audio and telecommunication equipment, such as an MP3 player or cell phone into the goggle. For example, the anterior module, the posterior module, the strap, and/or other components of the goggle can support one or more electronic devices for use by the wearer. Thus, embodiments provide for an interchangeable goggle having superior customization and capabilities.
DDDD:: In addition to the interchangeability of the anterior and posterior modules in order to provide customizable geometries and configurations of the goggle, the connector(s) 106, the posterior connection point(s), and/or the anterior connection point(s) can also be modified to allow adjustment the rake, component size, air volume, and/or other characteristics of the goggle. In some embodiments, the size, shape, and/or configuration of the connector(s) 106, the posterior connection point(s), and/or the anterior connection point(s) can be selected in order to modify characteristics of the goggle, such as those discussed above. In some embodiments, at least one of the connector(s) 106, the posterior connection point(s), and/or the anterior connection point(s) can be interchanged in order to modify the rake, component size, air volume, and/or other characteristics of the goggle.
DDDD:: FIGS. 11-12 illustrate another embodiment of a goggle 140. While the goggle 140 can comprise a lens support or anterior module 102 and a posterior module 104, similar to the goggle 100 discussed above, the goggle 140 shown in FIGS. 11-12 can comprise a different embodiment of the connector(s) discussed above. In particular, the goggle 140 can comprise an arcuate wishbone connector 142. Various embodiments of the wishbone connector 142 are discussed and illustrated herein, for example, in FIGS. 11-27.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the wishbone connector 142 can be coupled to the anterior module 102 and to the posterior module 104 in a manner that allows the wishbone connector 142 to move, flex or rotate relative to at least one of the anterior module 102 and the posterior module 104. The goggle 140 can provide differential adjustability of the posterior module relative to the anterior module in order to dynamically conform to the wearer's face and tend to equalize pressure distribution exerted by the posterior module against the head of the wearer.
DDDD:: The wishbone connector 142 can be coupled to the anterior module 102 at at least one point and to the posterior module 104 at at least one point. For example, in embodiments such as that illustrated in FIGS. 11-12, the wishbone connector 142 is coupled to the anterior module 102 at a single point and to the posterior module at two points. Such a construction can tend to encourage flexion of the posterior module 104 while the anterior module 102 remains generally undeflected. In such embodiments, the lens supported by the anterior module 102 may therefore be generally undeflected, thus resulting in improved optical performance of the goggle.
DDDD:: The wishbone connector 142 can be movably or rotatably coupled to at least one of the anterior module 102 and the posterior module 104. In order to provide a movable or rotatable relationship between the wishbone connector 142 and at least one of the anterior module 102 and the posterior module 104, wishbone connector 142 can comprise a flexible or pivotable joint formed at one of the connection points of the wishbone connector 142 and the anterior module 102 and/or the posterior module 104.
DDDD:: For example, the wishbone connector 142 can comprise a pivotable connection point 144. In some embodiments, the pivotable connection point 144 can be configured as a hinge joint or rotatable coupling formed between the wishbone connector 142 and the anterior module 102.
DDDD:: Further, the wishbone connector 142 can also comprise a flexible material that is used to create a flexible or pivotable joint. Such an embodiment is illustrated and discussed below with reference to FIGS. 13-16.
DDDD:: In the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 11-12, the wishbone connector 142 is coupled to the posterior module 104 at first and second posterior connection points 146, 148. In some embodiments, the first and second posterior connection points 146, 148 provide a fixed, rigid, or stationary coupling between the wishbone connector 142 and the posterior module 104. However, the first and second posterior connection points 146, 148 can provide a movable, rotatable, or pivotable coupling between the wishbone connector 142 and the posterior module 104.
DDDD:: The wishbone connector 142 can be configured to impart a desired relative movement between the anterior module 102 and the posterior module 104. As discussed and shown further below with respect to FIGS. 21A-27, the size, shape, and coupling mode of the wishbone connector can be varied in order to achieve a desirable articulation of the posterior module 104 relative to the anterior module 102. For example, the movement of the posterior module 104 can be performed substantially independently of movement of the anterior module 102. These considerations and alterations can be made in order to enhance the fit of the goggle, to provide a customized articulating for a specific range of head sizes or activities, and/or to modify the goggle design. In some embodiments, this mechanism can serve to enhance the comfort and fit of the posterior module 104 while preserving the optical qualities of a lens supported by the anterior module 102.
DDDD:: The interchangeable goggle embodiments discussed above with respect to FIGS. 7-12 can incorporate various mechanisms and features discussed in greater detail below, and optionally, in an interchangeable system. Some of these features will now be discussed in greater detail with reference to specific embodiments. While the features discussed herein can be incorporated into one or more of the interchangeable goggle embodiments, the features discussed herein can also be incorporated into one or more goggle embodiments that do not provide an interchangeability of components as discussed above with respect to FIG. 7-12.
DDDD:: Isostatic Faceplate Goggle Embodiments
DDDD:: Many prior art goggle designs share the deficiency of allowing preferential bending at a midpoint of the goggle frame as the goggle is tightened on a wearer's head that is narrower than the unstressed lateral edge to edge dimension of the goggle. Such preferential bending creates an inferior fit, reduced optical quality, and may even cause physical and optical discomfort for the wearer. Therefore, some embodiments reflect the realization that the preferential bending of prior art goggle frames can be reduced and/or eliminated in order to enhance the comfort and performance of a goggle, such as that disclosed in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/359,175, filed on Jan. 23, 2009, titled Controlled Deflection Goggle, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, some embodiments disclosed herein reflect the realization that a customized fit can be achieved by allowing portions of the goggle to dynamically articulate with respect to each other and actively adjust to contours of the wearer's face without requiring corresponding bending of the lens.
DDDD:: FIGS. 13-20 illustrate an isostatic faceplate mechanism that can be provided in accordance with some embodiments. As used herein, the term "isostatic faceplate mechanism" or "isostatic faceplate" can refer generally to a mechanism having an anterior module or frame and a posterior module or frame, wherein the posterior module can be adjustable relative to and/or independently of the anterior module to allow the posterior module to have a customized fit against the wearer's head. For example, this relative movement can further allow a desired shape of the anterior module to be maintained during flexing of the posterior module in order to prevent optical distortion of a lens or lenses supported by the anterior module. For example, in some embodiments, connectors between the anterior and posterior modules can allow a posterior module to articulate with respect to the anterior module to permit movement of the posterior module independently of movement of the anterior module. The posterior module can self-adjust to the shape and contour of the wearer's face, while maintaining the optical alignment of the lens contained in the anterior module.
DDDD:: As shown in FIGS. 13-16B, a goggle 200 can comprise a lens support or anterior module 202, a posterior module 204, and at least one connector 206. The isostatic faceplate mechanism of the goggle 200 can be formed using the connector(s) 206 and the anterior and posterior modules 202, 204. The isostatic faceplate mechanism can provide differential adjustability of the posterior module relative to the anterior module in order to equalize pressure distribution exerted by the posterior module against the head of the wearer.
DDDD:: In the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 13-16B, the connector(s) 206 can comprise a flexible coupling 210 that couples the connector(s) 206 to the anterior module 202. In this manner, the flexible coupling 210 can allow the connector(s) 206 to be coupled to the anterior faceplate 202 while permitting relative movement therebetween. For example, the movement of the posterior module 204 can be performed substantially independently of movement of the anterior module 202. Thus, similar to the pivotable embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 11-12, the connector(s) 206 can enable articulation of the posterior module 204 relative to the anterior module 202. In some embodiments, this mechanism can serve to enhance the comfort and fit of the posterior module 204 while preserving the optical qualities of a lens supported by the anterior module 202.
DDDD:: The flexible coupling 210 can comprise a resilient material. For example, the flexible coupling 210 can be fabricated using a polymer or metal that is compressible, elastic, and/or soft or semi-rigid. In such embodiments, the flexible coupling 210 can extend between the anterior module 202 and a body 212 of the connector(s) 206 and be rigidly attached thereto such that the flexibility of the flexible coupling 210 facilitates relative movement between the connector(s) 206 and the anterior module 202.
DDDD:: The connector(s) 206 can also comprise a pair of posterior ends 214 that can be coupled to the posterior module 204. The posterior ends 214 can be fixedly or movably attached to the posterior module 204 by means of thermal bonding, adhesive bonding, snap fit or other mechanical engagement, and/or other coupling methods known in the art. In some embodiments, the posterior ends 214 of the connector(s) 206 can be formed as widened attachment elements. As illustrated, the widened attachment elements can be configured to provide an increased contact area between the connector(s) 206 and the posterior module 204 to facilitate attachment of the connector(s) 206 to the posterior module 204. As discussed above with respect to the embodiment shown in FIGS. 7-10, the posterior module 204 can comprise connection points, recesses, ridges, and the like to which the posterior ends 214 can be bonded and/or mechanically engaged. The discussion of these features is incorporated here and will not be repeated for the sake of brevity.
DDDD:: Additionally, the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 13-16B can be configured such that the anterior module 202 comprises a semi-rigid or rigid material and/or construction. The anterior module 202 can support the lens in such a manner as to prevent substantial bending of the lens during use, thus providing optimal optical quality.
DDDD:: FIGS. 15-16B illustrate top views of the goggle 200 in which the posterior module 204 is shown in an undeflected position 250 and deflected positions 252, 254, respectively. FIG. 16A illustrates the deflection of the posterior module 204 from the undeflected position 250 shown in FIG. 15 to the narrowed deflected position 252 in order to accommodate a narrow head size. FIG. 16B illustrates the deflection of the posterior module 204 from the undeflected position 250 shown in FIG. 15 to the widened deflected position 254 in order to accommodate a wide head size.
DDDD:: As shown in FIG. 16A, the posterior module 204 can deflect relative to the anterior module 202 when an anterior force Fa is exerted against a central portion 256 of the posterior module 204. Such an anterior force Fa is directed generally forwardly as a wearer with a narrow head places the goggle 200 on their head. Because the wearer has a narrow head, a gap would otherwise exist between the sides of the wearer's head and side portions of the goggle as the goggle is fitted against the wearer's head. This typical situation is shown and described above in FIG. 5.
DDDD:: However, in the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 16A, side portions 260 of the posterior module 214 can be drawn generally away or separated from the anterior module 202, thus converging onto the sides of the wearer's head which can improve fit and pressure distribution against the wearer's head. The central portion 256 of the posterior module 204 therefore moves in a direction generally toward the anterior module 202 while the side portions 260 of the posterior module 204 move in a direction generally away from the anterior module 202. Due to the articulation of the connectors 206 and the posterior module 204 relative to the anterior module 202, the posterior module 204 can be deflected towards a narrowed deflected position 252 in order to accommodate a narrow head size.
DDDD:: Similarly, FIG. 16B illustrates the goggle 200 wherein the posterior module 204 is deflected toward a widened deflected position 254. In FIG. 16B, the posterior module 204 can deflect relative to the anterior module 202 when lateral forces Fb are exerted against one or both of the side portions 260 of the posterior module 204. Such lateral forces Fb are directed generally outwardly against the posterior module 204 as a wearer with a wide head places the goggle 200 on their head. Because the wearer has a wide head, the side portions would otherwise be significantly compressed against the sides of the wearer's head, and the central portion of the goggle may make little contact or pressure against the central part of the wearer's head. This typical situation is shown and described above in FIG. 6.
DDDD:: However, in the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 16B, side portions 260 of the posterior module 214 can be deflected laterally and cause a central portion 256 of the posterior module 204 to converge toward the central part of the wearer's head in order to better distribute pressure against the wearer's head. The central portion of the posterior module 204 moves in a direction generally away from the anterior module 202 while the side portions 260 of the posterior module 204 move in a direction generally toward the anterior module 202. Due to the articulation of the connectors 206 and the posterior module 204 relative to the anterior module 202, the posterior module 204 can be deflected towards a widened deflected position 258 in order to accommodate a wide head size.
DDDD:: The movement of the posterior module 204 can be at least partially controlled by movement of the connectors 206. In some embodiments, the connectors 206 can be generally rigid bodies. In such embodiments, pivoting or rotation of the connectors 206 can cause one end of the connectors 206 to move generally toward the anterior module 202 while another end of the connectors 206 will move generally away from the anterior module 202. Thus, movement of a portion of the posterior module 204 can immediately cause corresponding movement of another portion of the posterior module 204. For example, a wishbone connector can provide this function. These features and functions can be implemented in any of the isostatic faceplate mechanism embodiments, which can be incorporated into any of the goggle embodiments.
DDDD:: Accordingly, the isostatic faceplate mechanism can provide differential adjustability of the posterior module relative to the anterior module in order to equalize pressure distribution across the wearer's head and to enhance the fit and comfort of the goggle over a wide range of head sizes. In some embodiments, the isostatic faceplate mechanism can cause displacement of portions of the posterior module in response to an applied force.
DDDD:: For example, a portion of the posterior module can adjust in a direction generally toward or away from the anterior module in response to an applied force while another portion of the posterior module adjusts in an opposite direction that is generally away from or towards the anterior module. In some embodiments, if a portion of a first posterior module is urged away from the anterior module due to an applied force (caused for example, while putting the goggles on), at least a second portion of the posterior module can be drawn towards the anterior module (which is reverse the direction of the first portion). In accordance with some embodiments, the deflection of the posterior module to provide conformance of the posterior module along the contours of the face of the wearer can aid in maintaining the orientation of the anterior module and lens of the goggle relative to the face of the wearer in a desired and generally constant orientation.
DDDD:: Further, independent articulation of the posterior module relative to the anterior module can allow the anterior module to support the lens in a generally undeflected orientation, thus enhancing optical performance of the lens. Moreover, in some embodiments that use a rigid anterior module, the flexibility and adjustability of the goggle are not compromised.
DDDD:: FIGS. 17-18 illustrate another embodiment of an isostatic faceplate mechanism incorporated into a goggle 300. The goggle 300 can comprise a lens support or anterior module 302 and a posterior module 304. The posterior module 304 can be coupled to the anterior module by at least one connector 306.
DDDD:: The connector(s) 306 can comprise either a movable or a fixed component that interconnects the anterior module 302 with the posterior module 304. The connector(s) 306 can comprise a compressible, an incompressible, a flexible, and/or inflexible material. The top perspective view of FIG. 17 illustrates that the connector(s) 306 can comprise a wishbone connector, similar to the embodiment illustrated and discussed above in FIGS. 11-12. The discussion of these features will not be repeated here, but is incorporated from the above discussion.
DDDD:: The bottom perspective view of FIG. 18 illustrates that the connector(s) 306 can also comprise an elongate link or arm 310. The arm 310 can be formed from a generally rigid material or a flexible material. Thus, the arm 310 can provide a generally fixed or a variable or dynamic spacing between the anterior module 302 and the posterior module 304. The use of the arm 310 can influence the articulation of the posterior module 304 relative to the anterior module 302. For example, in some embodiments, an upper pair of connectors may provide a dynamic articulation through the use of wishbone connectors while a lower pair of connectors may provide a simple articulation through the use of elongate arms.
DDDD:: FIG. 19 illustrates a top view of the goggle 300 wherein the posterior module 304 is in an undeflected position 320. As such, the posterior module 304 can be biased towards the undeflected position 320. Although FIG. 19 illustrates the posterior module 304 in a widened position, the posterior module 304 can also be biased towards a narrow position.
DDDD:: FIG. 20A illustrates the posterior module 304 in a narrowed deflected position 322, with the undeflected position 320 being shown in dashed lines. Similarly to the embodiment shown and discussed in FIGS. 15-16B, an outwardly directed force Fa can be exerted against the posterior module 304 such that a central portion 330 is urged generally toward the anterior module 302. As the central portion 330 moves closer to the anterior module 302, side portions 332 of the posterior module 304 can be drawn generally away or separated from the anterior module 302. As discussed above with respect to FIGS. 15-16B, the connectors 306 can comprise a generally rigid material that enables opposing ends of the connectors 306 to move in generally opposite directions in response to rotation or pivoting of the connectors 306. In this manner, portions of the posterior module 304 can have interdependency of motion which can facilitate self-customization of the contour of the posterior module 304.
DDDD:: FIG. 20B illustrates the goggle 300 wherein the posterior module 304 is in a widened deflected position 360. As shown, forces Fb exerted on the side portions 332 of the posterior module 304 can urge the side portions 332 generally towards the anterior module 302. Because of this motion, the central portion 330 of the posterior module 304 can be drawn generally away or separated from the anterior module 302. Accordingly, a wearer having a wide head can have a generally customized fit when wearing the goggle. In some embodiments, the posterior module 304 can self-adjust to the contour of the wearer's head.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the isostatic faceplate mechanism can therefore allow self-adjusting of the posterior module of the goggle independent of movement of the anterior module. The movement of opposing ends or sides of the posterior module can be generally mirrored based on the location of an applied force. However, the connectors of the goggle can move independently of each other such that the articulation of one side of the posterior module is different from the articulation of the other side of the posterior module. Although such differences in articulation may be uncommon, this capability of some embodiments of the isostatic faceplate mechanism highlights the superior adjustability and self-customization that can be provided by the goggle.
DDDD:: Further, as shown in FIG. 18, some embodiments of the goggle can be provided with rigid or semi-rigid connectors. The rigid or semi-rigid connectors can support a portion of the posterior module at a given orientation relative to the anterior module and provide a pivot point for articulation in a lower portion of the posterior module.
DDDD:: The arms 310 shown in the embodiment of FIG. 18 are positioned adjacent to opposing sides of the anterior module 302. The arms 310 can be oriented such that longitudinal axes thereof converge at a point anterior to the face of the wearer and/or anterior to the goggle 300. In some embodiments, the arms 310 can support opposing sides of the posterior module 304 at a predetermined width or position relative to the anterior module 302. As such, when the goggle 300 is donned by a wearer, a lower portion 370 of the posterior module 304 can achieve moderate articulation using the pivot points created by the arms 310. Further, an upper portion 372 of the posterior module 304 can achieve a more aggressive articulation by virtue of the wishbone connectors 308. In such an embodiment, the articulation of the lower portion 370 and the upper portion 372 can provide dynamic adjustability of the posterior module 304.
DDDD:: Additionally, in some embodiments, the arms 310 can comprise a generally resilient or flexible material. The arms 310 can be pretensioned or biased towards a given position. For example, the arms 310 can be biased towards a narrow position such that the arms 310 can be widened when the goggle 300 is worn by a wearer. Biasing of the arms 310 can help in achieving an adequate seal between the posterior module 304 and the wearer's face.
DDDD:: As noted herein, some embodiments can provide for an interchangeable goggle by which a wearer can customize one or more components of the goggle. Some of the features and functions of the components, such as the shape, size, and biasing of the posterior module, the connectors, and the anterior module are a few of the parameters that can be customized through a modular goggle.
DDDD:: For example, a wearer could purchase connector arms were connectors that maintain a desired default orientation of the posterior module relative to the anterior module. Further, a wearer could purchase an anterior module having a desired size or coverage. As discussed further below, various types of connectors can be implemented in embodiments of the goggles.
DDDD:: FIGS. 21A-B illustrates an embodiment of a movable connector 400 that is coupled with a lens support or anterior module 402 and a posterior module 404. The connector 400 comprises a rotatable segment 410 that is coupled to the anterior module 402 that at a rotatable joint 412. The rotatable segment 410 can define a length 414 can be rotated along an arcuate path 420 defined by the length 414. The connector 400 can be rigidly coupled to the posterior module 404 such that the orientation of the segment 410 is fixed relative to the posterior module 404. For example, the connector 400 can be oriented at a perpendicular angle with respect to the posterior module 404.
DDDD:: FIG. 21A illustrates the rotatable segment 410 positioning the posterior module 404 in a widened deflected position 440. FIG. 21B illustrates the rotatable segment 410 positioning the posterior module 404 in a narrowed deflected position 442. Due to the rigid coupling between the rotatable segment 410 and the posterior module 404, a rotatable segment 410 can connect with the posterior module 404 at a single point while providing an effect that is similar to the effect created by a wishbone connector. That is, movement of a central region of the posterior module 404 can trigger a corresponding opposing movement of a side region of the posterior module 404 relative to the anterior module 402.
DDDD:: FIGS. 22A-B illustrate another embodiment of a moveable connector 460. The connector 460 can be coupled with a lens support or anterior module 462 and a posterior module 464. The connector 460 can comprise a rotatable segment 466 that is rotatably coupled to both the anterior module 462 and the posterior module 464.
DDDD:: In contrast to the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 21A-B, the embodiment of the connector 460 shown in FIGS. 22A-B provides rotatable movement of the rotatable connector 466 relative to both the anterior module 462 and the posterior module 464. Accordingly, the articulation of the posterior module 464 relative to the anterior module 462 can be different than in the embodiment of FIGS. 21A-B. In particular, the embodiment of FIGS. 22A-B can provide a more subtle collapsing of a side region 470. The rotational movement of the rotatable segment 466 relative to the posterior module 462 can allow the posterior module 464 to maintain a generally parallel orientation relative to the anterior module 462 during articulation. Further, the rotatable segment 466 can also permit the posterior module 464 to be compressed more closely toward the anterior module 462 than in the embodiment shown in FIGS. 21A-B, due to the rotational coupling of the rotatable segment 466 and the posterior module 464.
DDDD:: Accordingly, while the posterior module 464 can achieve a widened deflected position 480, as shown in FIG. 22A, the posterior module 462 can all also achieve an intermediate narrowed position 482, as shown in FIG. 22B. The widened deflected position 480 may provide a larger or flatter contour and width for the wearer's head than the widened deflected position 440 illustrated in FIG. 21A. The widened deflected position 480 may be within a good range for a large, generally flat forehead. The intermediate narrowed position 482 can provide a larger width for the wearer's head than the narrowed deflected position 442 illustrated in FIG. 21B. The intermediate narrowed position 482 may be within a good range for a small-sized head.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the size, configuration, and coupling mode of the connector can be selectively configured in order to achieve a desired articulation between the anterior module and the posterior module. As illustrated at discussed above with respect to FIGS. 21A-22B, some embodiments can be provided with a rotatable coupling at at least one connection point of the connector and one of the anterior module and the posterior module.
DDDD:: Further, one or both of the coupling joints between the connector and the anterior module and the posterior module can be configured to allow the connector to be disengaged therefrom. In this manner, the connector can be selectively replaced with a connector having a desired mechanical attribute. As such, the wearer can customize the goggle to their own specifications.
DDDD:: FIGS. 23A-E illustrate various positions of an embodiment of a connector 500 coupled with a lens support or anterior module 502 and a posterior module 504. As shown, the connector 500 can be rotatably coupled to the anterior module 502. The connector 500 can comprise a wishbone connector 510 that is coupled to a link 512. The link 512 can comprise a short segment that interconnects the wishbone connector 510 with the anterior module 502.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the link 512 can be rotatably coupled to both the wishbone connector 510 and the anterior module 502. Further, the link 512 can define a length 514. As shown in FIG. 23A, to wishbone connector 510 and the link 512 can separate the posterior module 504 from the anterior module 502 by a separation distance 516. Due to the rotational coupling of the link 512, the connector 500 and the posterior module 504 can rotate with respect to the anterior module 502 generally along a rotational path 518. However, in contrast to the rotatable wishbone connector shown in FIGS. 17-20B, the rotational path 518 represents a range of possible rotational positions that can vary due to the rotational coupling between the link 512 and both the anterior module 502 and the wishbone connector 510. In fact, the range of rotational positions provided by the rotational path 518 increases as the length 514 of the link 512 is increased. Indeed, by varying the length 514 of the link 512 and the separation distance 516, the articulation of the posterior module 504 can be modified to a desirable range.
DDDD:: FIGS. 23A-E illustrate several possible rotational orientations of the connector 500 and the posterior module 504 relative to the anterior module 502. FIG. 23A represents a position of the posterior module 504 in which a medium or intermediate-sized head could be accommodated. FIGS. 23B-C illustrate progressively narrower positions of the posterior module 504 while FIGS. 23D-E illustrate progressively wider positions of the position posterior module 504.
DDDD:: The embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 23A-E provides an example of a connector that can incorporate more than one component in a movable assembly in order to provide a more dynamic articulation of the posterior module relative to the anterior module. In some embodiments, three or more components can be used in the assembly to enhance the articulation of the goggle.
DDDD:: FIGS. 24A-25B illustrate additional embodiments of a connector that can be used in some embodiments of the goggle. FIGS. 24A-B illustrate embodiments of the connector in which geometric constraints have been modified to create a desired articulation of any posterior module relative to any anterior module of the goggle.
DDDD:: For example, FIG. 24A shows a connector 600 that comprises a wishbone-shaped body 602 and a pivotal coupling 604 extending from the body 602. The pivotal coupling 604 can be rotatably coupled to the anterior module of the goggle. Further, first and second ends 606, 608 of the body 602 can be coupled to the posterior module of the goggle. The ends 606, 608 can be rigidly or rotatably coupled to the posterior module. As illustrated, the pivotal coupling 604 can be spaced at a separation distance D1 from a dashed line 610 representing the location of the posterior module. Further, the first end 606 can be spaced from the pivotal coupling 604 at a first radius R1. The second end 608 can be spaced from the pivotal coupling 604 at a second radius R2.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the first and second radii R1, R2 can be generally equal to each other. In such embodiments, rotational movement of the connector 600 about the pivotal coupling 604 can then create equal displacement of the first and second ends 606, 608, which can result in generally equal and opposite displacement of portions of the posterior module 610 coupled to the respective first and second ends 606, 608 of the connector 600.
DDDD:: However, FIG. 24B illustrates a connector 620 that provides different articulation than the connector 600. The connector 620 comprises a wishbone-shaped body 622, a pivotal coupling 624 extending from the body 622, and first and second ends 626, 628. As illustrated, the pivotal coupling 624 can be spaced at a separation distance D2 from a dashed line 630 representing the location of the posterior module. Further, the first end 626 can be spaced from the pivotal coupling 624 at a third radius R3, and the second end 628 can be spaced from the pivotal coupling 624 at a fourth radius R4.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the third and fourth radii R3, R4 can be different distances. As illustrated, the third radius R3 can be approximately doubled the fourth radius R4. However, the third and fourth radii R3, R4 can be selectively adjusted in order to achieve a desired articulation, as described below.
DDDD:: In contrast to the embodiment of the connector 600 shown in FIG. 24A, the connector 620 shown in FIG. 24B creates different amounts of displacement at the first and second ends at 626, 628 of the connector 620 in response to rotation about the pivotal coupling 624. Thus, a force for displacement in a given direction against a portion of the posterior module 630 can create a muted, albeit responsive displacement of another portion of the posterior module 630. Embodiments of the goggle can be provided in which the dimensions D1, D2, R1, R2, R3, R4 of the connectors 600, 620 are varied in order to provide a desired articulation of the connectors 600, 620 and the posterior module attached thereto.
DDDD:: FIG. 25A-B illustrate additional embodiments of a connector. FIG. 25A illustrates a connector 640 having a generally wide, short body 642 while FIG. 25B illustrates a connector 650 having a generally narrow, tall body 652. The connectors 640, 650 can be used, for example, in embodiments of a goggle such as that shown above in FIGS. 13-16B, in which anterior portions 644, 654 of the connectors 640, 650 are flexibly or movably coupled to a lens support or anterior module. Similar to the embodiments illustrated in FIGS. 24A-B, the configuration of the connectors 640, 650 can be selectively modified in order to achieve a desired articulation.
DDDD:: In another embodiment of a connector, FIG. 26 illustrates an expandable cell connector 670. The expandable cell connector 670 can comprise at least one leaf spring component 672 having anterior and posterior ends that can be coupled to respective ones of a lens support or anterior module 674 and a posterior module 676. The expandable cell connector 670 can be formed in a diamond shape and be deformed in response to compression between the posterior module 676 and the anterior module 674.
DDDD:: In general, the expandable cell connector comprises at least a first strut 673 which is moveably or rigidly connected to the anterior module 674, and a second strut 675 which is rigidly or moveably connected to the posterior module 676. First strut 673 and second strut 675 may be anterior and posterior sections of a single, arcuate leaf spring. Alternatively, first strut 673 and second strut 675 are separated by a bend or hinge point 677. In the illustrated embodiment, the hinge point 677 comprises a loop of wire, which allows the angle between first strut 673 and second strut 675 to be varied through a wide angular range without exceeding the elastic limit of the material. Suitable materials include any of a wide variety of polymers, and also super elastic metals or spring metals, such as spring steel, Nitinol, Elgiloy and others known in the art.
DDDD:: The expandable cell connector illustrated in FIG. 26 includes a third strut and a fourth strut, separated by a second hinge point to define an enclosed cell. The cell functions as a spring or shock absorber between the two points of contact with the anterior and posterior modules. Two or three or four or five or six or more expandable cell connectors 670 may be provided along either the upper or lower portion of the frame. Spring cells in accordance with the present invention may be provided with four or five or six or more walls, and may comprise a honeycomb configuration in which the struts are replaced by a thin membrane.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the leaf spring component 672 can be fabricated from a resilient material, such as a plastic or metal that can be elastically deflected. The leaf spring component 672 can comprise a generally elongate body. The leaf spring component 672 can be separately or monolithically formed with one or more additional leaf spring components 672. Thus, the shape and configuration of the expandable cell connector 670 can vary depending on the number and orientation of the individual components of the expandable cell connector 670.
DDDD:: For example, the body of the leaf spring component 672 can comprise one or more curved portions and one or more straight portions. The body of the leaf spring component 672 can have the shape of a bent pin or a spring. Further, the leaf spring component 672 can be fabricated in the shape of a loop in order to facilitate distribution of compressive forces within the body of the leaf spring component 672.
DDDD:: FIG. 27 is a schematic diagram illustrating movement of the connectors and the respective spacing of the connectors. FIG. 27 illustrates first and second connectors 680, 682 that can be pivotably coupled to an anterior module (not shown) and rigidly coupled to a posterior module (not shown). The first and second connectors 680, 682 are shown in solid lines in an undeflected position 684 and dashed lines in a deflected position 686. The first and second connectors 680, 682 can rotate through an angle :ux394;1, as indicated in FIG. 27.
DDDD:: As illustrated, interior connection points P1, P2 of the first and second connectors 680, 682 are spaced apart at a distance L1 when in the undeflected position 684 and at a distance L2 when in the deflected position 686. Although the actual length of the posterior module disposed between the interior connection points P1, P2 of the first and second connectors 680, 682 may be greater than either distance L1, L2, FIG. 27 indicates that the actual length of the posterior module disposed between the interior connection points P1, P2 must be at least equal to the distance L2 in order for the first and second connectors 680, 682 to be deflected towards the deflected position 686. In some embodiments, the actual length of the posterior module disposed between the interior connection points P1, P2 can also be greater than the distance L2 such that the posterior module is not placed in tension in the deflected position 686.
DDDD:: FIG. 27 also indicates that in some embodiments, the movement of a pair of connectors towards a deflected position may actually separate connection points of the connectors while causing other connection points of the connectors to converge. For example, the separation of inner connection points can generally tend to flatten out a central portion of the posterior module while the convergence of the inner connection points may tend to increase the curvature of the central portion of the posterior module.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the first and second connectors 680, 682 can be configured and mounted relative to the anterior module such that rotation toward the deflected position 686 causes separation of the interior connection points P1, P2. However, the first and second connectors 680, 682 can be configured and mounted relative to the anterior module such that rotation toward the deflected position 686 causes convergence of the interior connection points P1, P2. In either of such embodiments, the articulation of the posterior module can be manipulated in order to target a desired range of head sizes for that embodiment.
DDDD:: Quick Release Lens Goggle Embodiments
DDDD:: Referring now to FIGS. 28-34C, embodiments of an interchangeable lens structure or quick release lens mechanism. As noted previously, any of the features disclosed herein can be individually incorporated into embodiments of the goggles and eyeglasses and incorporated into goggle and eyeglass embodiments in combination with other features. FIGS. 28-34C illustrate embodiments of a goggle wherein the anterior module of the goggle has been modified to comprise an interchangeable lens structure. Embodiments of the anterior module that comprise an interchangeable lens structure can be paired with embodiments of the connector(s) and/or posterior module.
DDDD:: Some embodiments of lens engagement systems are provided in Applicants' copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/648,232, filed on Dec. 28, 2009, titled Eyeglass with Enhanced Ballistic Resistance and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13/020,747, filed on Feb. 3, 2011, titled Eyewear with Enhanced Ballistic Resistance, the entireties of both of which are incorporated herein by reference. Further, these teachings are believed to apply for goggle and eyeglass technologies. These applications also include other features and aspects of eyewear features, including but not limited to goggle strap technology, the entireties of the related disclosures are also incorporated herein by reference.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the eyewear can comprise a frame or lens support with at least one engagement section for supporting and engaging a lens. FIGS. 28-29 illustrate an embodiment of a goggle 700 comprising a posterior module 702 and a lens support or anterior module 704 that incorporates an engagement section or interchangeable lens structure 706. The goggle 700 can also comprise a lens 708 that can be releasably retained by the interchangeable lens structure 706.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the interchangeable lens structure 706 can provide at least one interconnection point or engagement section 710 between the lens 708 and the anterior module 704 where the lens 708 is secured to the anterior module 704. The interchangeable lens structure 706 can comprise a structure that moves relative to the lens 708. The interchangeable lens structure 706 can also comprise one or more stationary structures, which can be used in combination with movable structures to engage the lens 708 to retain the lens 708 in a mounted position.
DDDD:: For example, the interchangeable lens structure 706 of the goggle 700 can comprise at least one engagement section 710. The engagement section(s) 710 can comprise at least one retention socket 720 and/or at least one retention clip 722. Further, the engagement section 710, the retention socket 720, and/or the retention clip 722 can comprise an engagement structure or member such as a depression, recess, receptacle, or socket and/or a protruding portion. In the illustrated embodiment, the retention socket 720 can receive and retain a least a portion of the lens 708 while the retention clip 722 can rotate relative to the lens 708 in order to secure the lens 708 in a mounted position on the goggle 700. As illustrated in FIG. 29, the retention socket 720 can receive a first side 726 of the lens 708, and the retention clip 722 can secure a second side 728 of the lens 708 when the lens 708 is in the mounted position.
DDDD:: FIG. 30 illustrates a perspective view of the lens 708 according to an embodiment. The lens 708 can comprise the first and second ends 726, 728 and a lens periphery 730. In some embodiments, one of the first and second ends 726, 728 of the lens 708 can comprise at least one retention structure 732. The retention structure 732 can comprise one or more apertures, recesses, ridges, and/or protrusions formed along a respective end 726, 728 of the lens 708. In the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 28-32A, the retention structures 732 comprise oblong apertures formed in the respective ends 726, 728 of the lens 708.
DDDD:: Referring now to FIGS. 31A-32A, the structure of an embodiment of the interchangeable lens structure 706 and its engagement with the lens 708 will be described. FIG. 31A illustrates further features of the retention socket 720 and the retention clip 722. The retention socket 720 can be formed such that the first end 726 of the lens 708 can be inserted into the retention socket 720 and at least partially constrained against anterior motion. Thus, the retention socket 720 can comprise a cavity or space configured to receive at least a portion of the lens 708.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the retention socket 720 can be formed to comprise at least one engagement member 740 that can be configured to engage with the retention structure 732 of the lens 708. For example, the engagement member 740 of the retention socket 720 can be positioned on an inner, anterior face of the retention socket 720 such that the engagement member 740 can engage the retention structure 732 of the lens 708 from a position anterior to the lens 708. However, the engagement member 740 can also be positioned on an inner posterior face of the retention socket 720 such that the engagement member 740 can engage the retention structure 732 from a position posterior to the lens 708. Moreover, the engagement member 740 can be disposed along an interior lateral side of the retention socket 720 such that a side edge of the first end 726 of the lens 708 can contact and/or engage with the engagement member 740.
DDDD:: Additionally, the retention clip 722 can be configured to engage with the second ends 728 of the lens 708 in order to at least partially constrain the lens 708 against anterior motion. For example, the retention clip 722 can comprise an actuating jaw 744 and an engagement member 746. In some embodiments, the jaw 744 can comprise a retention structure configured to engage with a portion of the lens 708. In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 31A, the jaw 744 is movable or rotatable with respect to the engagement member 746. Further, the jaw 744 can be configured to translate with respect to the anterior module 704 and/or be removably attachable to the anterior module 704.
DDDD:: The engagement member 746 can be formed along a portion of the engagement section 710 of the anterior module 704. For example, the engagement member 746 can be formed along an anterior face of the anterior module 704, such as to extend from a recess formed in the engagement section 710. In some embodiments, the engagement member 746 can comprise at least one protrusion and/or recess configured to engage with the retention structure 732 of the second end 728 of the lens 708. As discussed further below, when the engagement member 746 of the retention clip 722 is engaged with the retention structure 732 of the lens 708, the jaw 744 can be rotated from a disengaged position to an engaged position to constrain movement of the lens 708 relative to the engagement member 746 of the retention clip 722.
DDDD:: FIG. 31B illustrates a first stage of mounting and securing the lens 708 to the anterior module 704 using the interchangeable lens structure 706. As shown, the first end 726 of the lens 708 is inserted into the retention socket 720 such that the engagement member 740 of the retention socket 720 engages with the retention structure 732 of the first end 726 of the lens 708. When the first end 726 of the lens 708 is in place, the second end 728 of the lens 708 is moved towards the retention clip 722.
DDDD:: FIG. 31C illustrates the lens 708 in a mounted position relative to the anterior module 704 of the goggle 300. In the mounted position, the lens periphery 730 can be generally flush or mate with a periphery 760 of the anterior module 704.
DDDD:: FIG. 31D also illustrates the lens 708 in the mounted position relative to the anterior module 704 prior to actuation of the retention clip 722. As shown, the retention structure 732 of the second end 728 of the lens 708 can be aligned with or initially engaged with the engagement member 746 of the retention clip 722. In the illustrated embodiment, a protrusion of the engagement member 746 has been inserted into an aperture formed in the second end 728 of the lens 708.
DDDD:: Subsequent to alignment of the lens 708 with the retention socket 720 and the retention clip 722, the jaw 744 of the retention clip 722 can be moved from the disengaged position (shown in FIG. 31D) to an engaged position, as shown in FIG. 31E. In the illustrated embodiment, the jaw 744 is rotated to the engaged position, thus constraining the lens 708 from a degree of movement.
DDDD:: FIGS. 32-32B are cross-sectional top views of the anterior module 704 of the goggle 700 shown in FIGS. 28-29, taken along the lines 32-32 of FIG. 29. FIG. 32A illustrates the interconnection of the retention socket 720 with the first end 726 of the lens 708. The engagement member 740 of the retention socket 720 can be positioned into engagement with the retention structure 732 of the first end 726 of the lens 708. As shown, the aperture of the retention structure 732 can receive the protrusion of the engagement member 740 in such a manner that the first end 726 is hooked or engaged within the retention socket 720.
DDDD:: For example, the retention structure 732 can be configured to allow the lens 708 to engage with the retention socket 720 at a first rotational position and then to allow the lens 708 to be rotated about a generally horizontal axis until being positioned in a mounted position with respect to the anterior module 704. Once in the mounted position, the first end 726 of the lens 708 can be engaged with the retention socket 720 to prevent side-to-side or anterior-posterior motion of the lens 708. In this manner, the engagement member 740 can resist an anterior force exerted against the lens 708 and thereby prevent substantial movement of the lens 708 relative to the retention socket 720.
DDDD:: FIG. 32B illustrates the interconnection of the retention clip 722 with the second end 728 of the lens 708. The engagement member 746 of the retention clip 722 can be aligned or engaged with the retention structure 732 of the second end 728 of the lens 708. As shown, the aperture of the retention structure 732 can receive the protrusion of the engagement member 746.
DDDD:: The jaw 744 can be rotated, moved, slid, shifted, or translated in order to secure the second end 728 of the lens 708 to the anterior module 704. In some embodiments, the jaw 744 can pivot about a generally horizontal lateral axis and engage at least portion of the lens 708 and at least a portion of the anterior module 704. For example, the jaw 744 can be formed with a U-shaped body that can engage or enclose at least a portion of the second end 728 of the lens 708 and at least a portion of the anterior module 704. The retention structure 732 and the engagement member 746 can be enclosed between anterior and posterior portions of the jaw 744. Further, the jaw 744 can engage anterior and posterior portions of the anterior module 704 and at least a portion of the lens 708.
DDDD:: Thus, the jaw 744 can be rotated to the engaged position such that relative movement between the retention structure 732 and engagement member 746 is prevented. More specifically, with the jaw 744 in the engaged position, the protrusion of the engagement member 746 is unable to exit the aperture of the retention structure 732. Additionally, due to the engagement of the second end 728 of the lens 708 with the anterior module 704, movement or disengagement the first end 726 of the lens 708 with the anterior module 704 will also be prevented. In this manner, the first end 726 and the second end 728 of the lens 708 can be secured relative to the anterior module 704.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the jaw 744 of the retention clip 722 can be secured in place when moved to the engaged position. For example, the rotatable coupling of the jaw 744 can comprise a recess and protrusion mechanism in which one of the recess and the protrusion rotate relative to the other until the jaw 744 reaches the engaged position, at which time the recess and the protrusion can engage with each other in the mechanism in order to limit or prevent rotational movement of the jaw 744 absent the presence of a significant rotational force. Accordingly, such a mechanism can prevent accidental and unintentional rotation and subsequent disengagement of the jaw 744. Other such mechanisms, including clips, pins, latches, etc., can be incorporated into the retention clip 722 in order to fix the jaw 744 once in the engaged position.
DDDD:: In accordance with another embodiment, FIGS. 33-34C illustrates a goggle 800 having a posterior module 802, and anterior module 804, and an interchangeable lens structure 806 that can accommodate the removal and replacement of a lens 808. Similar to the embodiment of the goggle 700, the interchangeable lens structure 806 of the goggle 800 can comprise mechanisms that facilitate the interconnection of the anterior module 804 with the lens 808. However, in contrast with the goggle 700, the interchangeable lens structure 806 of the goggle 800 can comprise a pair of retention clips 820.
DDDD:: The retention clips 820 can each comprise an engagement member 830, a jaw 832 and a latch 834. The jaw 832 and a latch 834 can be rotatably mounted to the anterior module 804. However, in some embodiments, the jaw 832 and/or the latch 834 can be configured to translate with respect to the anterior module 804 and/or be subsequently attached to the anterior module 804 after the lens 808 is positioned at a mounted position with respect to the anterior module 804.
DDDD:: Similar to the embodiment of the goggle 700, the lens 808 can comprise the first and second ends 840, 842 that each comprise a respective engagement structure 844. The engagement structure 844 can engage or mate with the engagement member 830 of the retention clip 820. The engagement structure 844 can comprise an aperture, and the engagement member 830 can comprise a protrusion. The jaw 832, similar to the jaw 744, can resist relative motion between the engagement structure 844 and the engagement member 830.
DDDD:: The latch 834 can be configured to rotate from an unsecured position to a secured position in which the latch 834 can engage with the jaw 832 in order to prevent accidental or unintentional rotation of the jaw 832. These structures and features of the lens 808 and the retention clip 820 can be modified as discussed above with respect to the lens 708 and the retention clip 722 of the goggle 700; therefore, the discussion of such modifications and features is incorporated herein and will not be repeated for the sake of brevity.
DDDD:: Referring now to FIGS. 34A-C, the mounting an engagement of the lens 808 with the retention clip 820 of the goggle 800 will now be described. As shown in FIG. 34A, the lens 808 is initially moved toward the anterior module 804 of the goggle 800 with the retention clip 820 in a disengaged position. The first end 840 of the lens 808 is positioned such that the engagement structure 844 is mated with the engagement member 830 of the retention clip 820, as shown in FIG. 34B.
DDDD:: Once the lens 808 is in a mounted position as shown in FIG. 34B, the jaw 832 of the retention clip 820 can be moved toward an engaged position, as shown in FIG. 34C. Additionally, the latch 834 of the retention clip 820 can be moved towards the secured position in order to prevent accidental or unintentional rotation of the jaw 832 from the engaged position.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the latch 834 can mechanically engage with the jaw 832 such that accidental or unintentional rotation of the jaw 832 is prevented. For example, the latch 834 can comprise one or more protrusions and/or recesses that can engage with one or more respective recesses and/or protrusions of the jaw 832. Further, the latch 834 can be biased toward the secured position by means of a spring or the like such that a substantial rotational force must be exerted up on the jaw 832 in order to move the jaw 832 from the engaged position towards a disengaged position. In such embodiments, the latch 834 can facilitate the secure engagement of the lens 808 with the anterior module 804.
DDDD:: As mentioned herein, the quick release lens mechanism can be used in combination with an eyeglass as well as a goggle. The structure of such embodiments comprises the quick release lens mechanism described above and used in combination with an eyeglass frame and at least one eyeglass lens. The eyeglass can comprise dual lenses or a unitary lens. Further, the eyeglass frame can comprise full or partial orbitals. Accordingly, the above discussion will not be repeated here for brevity, but is incorporated by reference hereto for use in eyeglass embodiments.
DDDD:: Rigid Frame Goggle Embodiments
DDDD:: FIG. 35 illustrates a top view of a lens support or anterior module 900 of a goggle. In some embodiments, the anterior module 900 can be formed as a substantially rigid structure. As a substantially rigid structure, the anterior module 900 can support a lens 902 in a manner that prevents the transfer of bending forces or stresses to the lens 902 to prevent any significant deflection of the lens 902.
DDDD:: The term "substantially rigid structure" can encompass embodiments in which the entire anterior module 900 has a constant flexural strength along the width thereof. The term "substantially rigid structure" can also encompass embodiments in which the anterior module 900 has a variable flexural strength along the length thereof, providing desired rigidity at specific portions thereof.
DDDD:: For example, "substantially rigid structure" can encompass an embodiment in which side sections of the anterior module provide a degree of flexibility while a central section of the anterior module is generally inflexible. In some embodiments, the central section of the anterior module can be generally inflexible along a width that can be greater than or equal to about :ux2153; of the entire width of the anterior module and/or less than or equal to about :ux2158; of the entire width of the anterior module. Further, the central section of the anterior module can be generally inflexible along a width that can be greater than or equal to about 1/2 of the entire width of the anterior module and/or less than or equal to about :ux2154; of the entire width of the anterior module.
DDDD:: Additionally, the term "substantially rigid structure" can also encompass embodiments in which the anterior module is formed from a rigid material, such as a metal or hard plastic, which is generally inflexible under normal flexural stresses of use and handling. However, the term "substantially rigid structure" can also encompass embodiments in which the anterior module is formed from a resilient or elastic material that allows minimal bending, but returns to a default or original configuration when worn.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the anterior module 900 can have a configuration or contour that matches the configuration or contour of the lens 902 in its as-molded configuration. Thus, the lens 902 can be rigidly supported by the anterior module 900 such that the lens 902 does not deflect from its as-molded configuration, thereby preserving the optical quality of the lens 902.
DDDD:: FIG. 35 illustrates that the anterior module 900 can comprise an interchangeable lens structure 904 disposed at opposing ends of the anterior module 900. In some embodiments, the interchangeable lens structure 904 can be disposed at top and/or bottom portions of the anterior module 900 or along other places thereof. Accordingly, the lens 902 can be replaced and securely retained by the anterior module 900 by virtue of the interchangeable lens structure 904.
DDDD:: Further Embodiments
DDDD:: FIGS. 36-51 illustrate an embodiment of eyewear that can incorporate various features and components discussed herein. The embodiment of the eyewear shown in these figures is illustrated as a goggle, but other forms of eyewear, such as eyeglasses, can also incorporate or omit the features discussed with respect to this embodiment, as well as incorporate or omit other features of other embodiments discussed herein.
DDDD:: Referring now to FIGS. 36-39, an embodiment of a goggle 1000 is provided that can comprise various features and advantages of the aforementioned embodiments, as well as other features discussed further below. For example, the goggle 1000 can comprise an engagement mechanism 1002, an isostatic posterior frame component 1004, a lens or lens assembly 1006, an anti-fog Venturi airflow system 1008, a rigid frame 1010, and a modular frame 1012. These features can be interchangeably incorporated into various embodiments, and the embodiment shown in FIGS. 36-51 is provided for illustrative purposes only.
DDDD:: FIG. 37 is a side view of the goggle 1000 illustrating the engagement mechanism 1002. The engagement mechanism 1002 can comprise a latch member or clip 1020. The latch member 1020 can be movably coupled to an anterior module or frame 1022 of the goggle 1000 in order to facilitate engagement between the goggle 1000 and the lens assembly 1006. The latch member 1020 can move between a closed position 1024 and an open position 1026 (shown in FIG. 38). In some embodiments, the latch member 1020 can be pivotably coupled to the frame 1022. However, the latch member 1020 can also be slidably coupled to the frame 1022.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the engagement mechanism 1002 can also comprise a biasing component. The biasing component can be configured to urge the latch member 1020 toward the closed position 1024 to secure the lens assembly 1006 relative to the goggle 1000. Further, the biasing component can operate as a bistable mechanism to urge the latch member 1020 toward either the closed position 1024 or the open position 1026.
DDDD:: As shown in FIGS. 36-40C, the biasing component can comprise a deflectable component, such as a link 1030. For example, the biasing component can deflect from an undeflected or at-rest position to a deflected or stressed position. When moved, compressed, or deflected to the stressed or deflected position by a given force, the biasing component can store potential energy that can be exerted to move the engagement mechanism 1002 toward the closed position 1024 or the open position 1026. In the embodiment illustrated in FIGS. 36-40C, the biasing component is shown as the link 1030, which is in the form of an arcuate elongate body. The biasing component can comprise various structures, such as a spring, a band, link, or other structure that can store potential energy during movement, compression, or deflection thereof.
DDDD:: FIGS. 40A-40C illustrate that an embodiment of the link 1030 can comprise the first and second ends 1040, 1042 that can be interconnected with a portion of the goggles 1000 and a portion of the latch member 1020, respectively. The link 1030 can comprise apertures disposed at the first and second ends 1040, 1042 thereof that enable the link 1030 to be interconnected in use.
DDDD:: In the illustrated embodiment, the link 1030 is configured as a monolithic structure. The link 1030 can comprise a deflectable core or body 1044 to enable the link 1030 to provide a biasing force to the latch member 1020. For example, the link 1030 can provide a virtual pivot or living hinge for the latch member 1020. The body 1044 can define a variable profile in order to provide a desired degree of resistance to deflection. For example, the body 1044 can define flattened central section to facilitate bending of the link 1030 and provide a desired degree of resistance to deflection. In some embodiments, central section of the body 1044 can be flattened in a direction generally parallel to a bending axis. Further, the end portions of the body 1044 can be flattened in a direction generally transverse or oblique relative to the bending axis in order to reduce and/or prevent bending at the end portions. The variable profile or tapered dimensions of the link 1030 can allow the body 1044 of the link 1030 to be manufactured from a single material while providing desired strength characteristics. However, in some embodiments, the link 1030 can be configured as a monolithic unit or structure having a generally constant cross-sectional profile along the body 1044 or thereof. In such embodiments, the material forming the link 1030 can be selected to provide desired strength characteristics.
DDDD:: However, in some embodiments, the link 1030 can also be formed from a plurality of materials or separate parts. For example, the first and second ends 1040, 1042 of the link 1030 can be formed from a generally rigid material while the body 1044 of the link 1030 comprises a different material that is generally deflectable in order to allow the link 1030 to provide a desired biasing function.
DDDD:: The link 1030 can be formed from a variety of materials, including plastics, metals, composites, and the like. In some embodiments, the link 1030 can be formed using an injection molding process. Other processes such as overmolding, casting, and the like can be used to form the link 1030, whether as a monolithic structure or an assembly and whether formed from a single material or multiple materials.
DDDD:: Referring again to FIGS. 37-39, the link 1030 can be coupled to the frame 1022 and the latch member 1020 at first and second connection points 1050, 1052. The first connection point 1050 can be located along the frame 1022. For example, the first connection point 1050 can be configured as an aperture extending through the frame 1022. The second connection point 1052 can be located along the latch member 1020. For example, the second connection point 1052 can comprise an aperture extending through an intermediate portion of the latch member 1020. The goggle 1000 can be configured such that the spacing of the first connection point 1050 from the second connection point 1052 varies when the latch member 1020 is pivoted between the closed position 1024, an intermediate open position (not shown), and the open position 1026.
DDDD:: For example, a pivot connection point 1060 between the latch member 1020 and the frame 1022 can be positioned relative to the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 so as to cause separation of the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 as the latch member 1020 pivots relative to the frame 1022. For example, the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 can define a linear path and a first direct, linear distance therebetween when the latch member 1020 is in the closed position 1024. As shown in FIGS. 37-38, the pivot connection point 1060 can be offset or spaced apart from the linear path of the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 when the latch member 1020 is in the closed position 1024. The motion of the second connection point 1052 occurs along an arcuate path defined by the distance (or radius) between the pivot connection point 1060 and the second connection point 1052. Further, during movement of the latch member 1020, although the distance between the first connection point 1050 and the pivot connection point 1060 does not change, the direct, linear distance between the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 will increase as the second connection point 1052 moves along the arcuate path as the latch member 1020 pivots.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the increase in the direct, linear distance between the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 can result in a stretching or deflection of the link 1030 as the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 move apart. The link 1030 can be configured to resist the stretching or deflection and tend to urge the latch member to the closed and/or open position 1024, 1026 as the link 1030 seeks to return to a non-stressed position. Accordingly, the link 1030 can tend to exert a biasing force that urges the latch member 1020 toward the closed and/or open position 1024, 1026.
DDDD:: FIGS. 37 and 38 illustrate the offset positioning of the pivot connection point 1060 from the linear path defined by the first and second connection points 1050, 1052. An intermediate position (not shown) between the open and closed positions 1024, 1026 could be reached when the pivot connection point 1060 is linearly aligned with the first and second connection points 1050, 1052. In such an intermediate position, the distance between the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 would be maximized, also resulting in a maximum potential energy in the link 1030.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the spacing or linear distance of the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 can be generally equal to the linear distance between the apertures of the first and second ends 1040, 1042 of the link 1030 when the link 1030 is in the undeflected or at-rest position (i.e., when the latch member 1020 is in the closed position 1024). However, in some embodiments, the spacing or linear distance of the first and second connection points 1050, 1052 can be generally greater than the linear distance between the apertures of the first and second ends 1040, 1042 of the link 1030 when the link 1030 is in the undeflected or at-rest position (i.e., when the latch member 1020 is in the closed position 1024). Thus, the link 1030 can be in a generally stressed or deflected state when the latch member 1020 is in the closed or open positions 1024, 1026. In such embodiments, a closing or opening force can be continually applied by the link 1030 in order to maintain the latch member 1020 securely in the open or closed position 1024, 1026.
DDDD:: As noted above with respect to FIGS. 28-34C, the goggle 1000 can also comprise an interchangeable lens structure in which the lens or lens assembly 1006 comprises at least one retention structure 1070 and the frame 1022 comprises at least one corresponding engagement member 1072. Further, the opposite ends of the lens or lens assembly 1006 and the frame 1022 can be configured to include a retention structure and/or an engagement member to facilitate interconnection of the opposite end of the lens assembly 1006 with the opposite end of the frame 1022.
DDDD:: As similarly discussed above, FIGS. 37-39 illustrate that when the opposite end of the lens assembly 1006 is properly seated against the frame 1022, the retention structure 1070 can be fitted over the engagement member 1072, and the latch member 1020 can be moved down into the closed position 1024 to engage and secure the lens assembly 1006 relative to the frame 1022. The above discussion regarding these features is incorporated herein by reference and the discussion will not be repeated here.
DDDD:: Referring now to FIGS. 41A-B, an embodiment of the latch member 1020 is illustrated. The latch member 1020 can comprise first and second coupling points 1080, 1082. The latch member 1020 can be coupled to the frame 1022 at the first coupling point 1080. Additionally, the latch member 1020 can be coupled with the biasing component or link 1030 at the second coupling point 1082. The latch member 1020 can also comprise a body 1090 having an actuating portion 1092 that can be configured to allow the wearer to grip and adjust the position of the latch member 1020 relative to the frame 1022.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the body 1090 of the latch member 1020 can also comprise a first flange 1094. The first flange 1094 can overlap the lens assembly 1006 and the engagement member 1072 of the frame 1022 when the latch member 1020 is positioned in the closed position 1024. The body 1090 of the latch member 1020 can also comprise a second flange 1096. The second flange 1096 can be configured to engage a portion of the frame 1022 when the latch member 1020 is in the closed position 1024. Accordingly, the first and second flanges 1094, 1096 can be used to receive at least a portion of the lens assembly 1006 and at least a portion of the frame 1022 by capturing or sandwiching the lens assembly 1006 and the frame 1022 to secure the relative positioning of the lens assembly 1006 and the frame 1022.
DDDD:: Additionally, the body 1090 of the latch member 1020 can comprise a stop mechanism 1098. As shown in FIGS. 37-38, the stop mechanism 1098 can interact with a ledge 1100 formed on the frame 1022 to restrict rotational movement of the latch member 1020. For example, as the latch member 1020 rotates upwardly to the open position 1026, the stop mechanism 1098 can contact the ledge 1100 to limit further rotation of the latch member 1020 relative to the frame 1022. Advantageously, in some embodiments of the latch member 1020, the position of the stop mechanism 1098 can be varied in order to adjust the rotational orientation of the open position 1026.
DDDD:: In order to achieve a desired articulation and closing or opening force of the latch member 1020, the spacing and configuration of the components of the engagement mechanism 1002 can be varied. Further, the latch member 1020 and/or the frame 1022 can comprise a locking structure or component 1099. The locking structure 1099 can interact with the frame 1022 to provide an additional securing force between the latch member 1020 and the frame 1022 when the latch member 1020 is in the closed position 1024. For example, the locking structure 1099 can be formed as a protrusion along an edge or surface of the latch member 1020. Further, an engaging portion 1101 of the frame 1022, such as a ledge, protrusion, or recess, can engage with the locking structure 1099 when the latch member 1020 is in the closed position 1024 to secure the latch member 1020 in the closed position 1024.
DDDD:: Although some embodiments can use a single lens, some embodiments can use a lens assembly comprising two or more components and/or lenses. For example, FIGS. 42-43 illustrate an embodiment of a lens assembly 1006 that can be used in some embodiments. The lens assembly 1006 can comprise an outer lens 1050 and an inner lens 1052. In some embodiments, the outer and inner lenses 1050, 1052 can be spaced apart by a gasket component 1054 to create a gap 1060 between the lenses 1050, 1052. The gasket 1054 can extend about a periphery of the lenses 1050, 1052. Further, the outer lens 1050 can be configured to comprise retention structures 1070, 1071 by which the lens assembly 1006 can be coupled to the goggle. The retention structures 1070, 1071 can be disposed on opposing lateral ends of the lens assembly 1006.
DDDD:: The gasket 1054 can comprise one or more discontinuities to permit airflow into the gap 1060. However, the gasket 1054 can also extend continuously or unbroken about the periphery of the lenses 1050, 1052 such that the gap 1060 forms a sealed or enclosed pocket of air. The gasket 1054 can comprise a breathable or open cell material that allows air passage through the gasket 1054. Further, the gasket 1054 can comprise a non-breathable or closed cell material that tends to prevent air passage therethrough. In some embodiments, the gasket 1054 can comprise breathable and non-breathable portions.
DDDD:: The gap 1060 created between the lenses can facilitate ventilation, anti-fogging, and/or create an insulative effect by trapping a pocket of air between the outer and inner lenses 1050, 1052. For example, an enclosed pocket of air can maintain an intermediate temperature which, in some conditions, can bridge a temperature differential between the air temperature adjacent the wearer's face and the air temperature outside the goggle.
DDDD:: During use, the inner lens 1052 can be compressed against the goggle frame when the lens assembly 1006 is coupled to the goggle. In some embodiments, the inner lens 1052 can form a seal against the goggle frame to maintain a desired air flow or ventilation through the frame, as discussed below.
DDDD:: Referring now to FIGS. 44-45, the goggle 1000 can comprise an anti-fog Venturi airflow system 1008. The airflow system 1008 can comprise one or more ports 1102 disposed along a periphery of the goggle 1000. The port(s) 1102 can be disposed along a central section of the goggle 1000 along an upper portion thereof. The port(s) 1102 can comprise an anterior end 1104 that is open toward the anterior direction of the goggle 1000 and a posterior end 1106 that is open toward a posterior section of the goggle 1000.
DDDD:: In use, air can flow into the anterior end 1104 of the port 1102 and out through the posterior end 1106. The air flow can exhibit the velocity and pressure qualities produced as a result of the Venturi effect. A pressure differential can exist between the outer portions of the goggle and the port(s) 1102. Air can be drawn into the port(s) 1102 and pass over a suspension or interconnection portion 1110 of the goggle 1000. In some embodiments, the interconnection portion 1110 can comprise a foam or air permeable membrane (not shown) that covers the suspension or interconnection portion 1110 to prevent ingress of particulate into the interior of the goggle 1000. The air passing through the port(s) 1102 can pass over the membrane and provide enhanced ventilation and defogging for the goggle 1000. In some embodiments, the Venturi effect can contribute to a negative pressure being created in the interior of the goggle to induce airflow therethrough and reduce fogging. Such embodiments can thus provide improved ventilation and defogging compared to prior art goggles that do not comprise an airflow system.
DDDD:: In embodiments of the goggle having an isostatic posterior frame component 1004, the goggle 1000 can further comprise means for allowing further adjustability of the faceplate to conform to larger or smaller head sizes. For example, FIG. 44 illustrates that the posterior frame component 1004 can comprise a posterior faceplate 1120 and an isostatic mechanism 1122. The posterior faceplate 1120 can comprise a generally flat surface that extends about the periphery of the faceplate 1120 and can further comprise at least one flexible portion 1130. The flexible portion 1130 can give the posterior faceplate 1120 additional width adaptability to adjust to a given size and shape of a wearer's face. Thus, the generally flat surfaces of the posterior faceplate 1120 position on either side of the flexible portion 1130 can be spread or displaced from each other in order to accommodate a given head shape. For example, the flexible portion 1130 can allow opposing sides of the faceplate 1120 to be stretched apart from each other in an additional amount that allows the faceplate 1120 to accommodate larger head sizes. The additional amount of stretching or displacement is determined by the geometry and length of the flexible portion 1130.
DDDD:: For example, the flexible portion 1130 can be formed as a recessed or curved portion along the faceplate 1120. The flexible portion 1130 can deviate from the curvature on either side of the faceplate 1120. As the faceplate 1120 is flattened to accommodate a wide head size, the flexible portion 1130 can also flatten to allow increased coverage and adjustability of the faceplate 1120. Further, for smaller head sizes, the flexible portion 1130 can collapse into itself to allow the faceplate 1120 to be adjusted to tighter dimensions. Accordingly, the shape of the flexible portion 1130 can allow the faceplate 1120 to adjust to a variety of head shapes and sizes more so than a faceplate without a flexible portion.
DDDD:: Further, in some embodiments, the shape of the flexible portion 1130 can also be used to achieve a desired air flow into the interior of the goggle 1000, as desired. One or more of the flexible portions 1130 can be used for facilitating air flow and/or adjustability of the faceplate 1120.
DDDD:: The isostatic mechanism 1122 can comprise a plurality of connectors 1124 that extend from an anterior portion 1126 of the posterior frame component 1004. The connectors 1124 can be formed from a compressible or flexible material. For example, the connectors 1124 can be deflected such that the faceplate 1120 can be deformed to accommodate a given head shape. The connectors 1124 can be positioned generally equidistant from a centerline of the goggle 1000. As illustrated, the connectors 1124 can be positioned at the upper rim or edge of the goggle 1000; however, the connectors can also be positioned along a lower rim or edge of the goggle 1000.
DDDD:: Additionally, the isostatic mechanism 1122 can be integrally or monolithically formed with the faceplate 1120 such that these components form a single-piece unit. For example, in some embodiments, a desirably flexible material can be used to fabricate both be isostatic mechanism 1122 and the faceplate 1120. This can advantageously reduce the manufacturing time and cost, as well as simplify the assembly process. Accordingly, the goggle 1000 can be easily modularly formed using an economy of individual components that are interchangeable according to wearer preferences, as discussed further herein.
DDDD:: Embodiments of the goggle can also be formed modularly with wearer-interchangeable components that can be interconnected and secured together by using a wearer-actuatable fastener or fastening mechanism. In some embodiments, the wearer-actuatable fastening mechanism can be defined as a fastener or fastening mechanism that can be manually actuated between engaged and disengaged states by the wearer. Wearer-actuatable fasteners or fastening mechanisms may be actuated without requiring the use of specialized tools; however, it is contemplated that basic tools, such as a screwdriver, may be used to facilitate actuation. In some embodiments, a wearer-actuatable fastener or fastening mechanism can be actuated by hand, without tools. Further, some embodiments of the goggle can be modularly interchangeable and secured together without permanent or single-use fasteners, such as adhesives and some mechanical fasteners, including screws, bolts, adhesives, and the like.
DDDD:: For example, the embodiment of FIGS. 44-51 illustrates that the goggle 1000 can comprise first and second outriggers 1200, 1202. The outriggers 1200, 1202 can be removably coupled to the goggle 1000 and facilitate interconnection of the components of the goggle 1000 with each other. In the illustrated embodiment, the anterior module or frame portion 1022 of the goggle can be fastened or coupled to a posterior module or frame portion 1212 using the outriggers 1200, 1202. As discussed further below, the coupling formed by the outriggers 1200, 1202 with the goggle 1000 can be achieved by the wearer by manipulating the components by hand. Thus, the components of the goggle 1000 can be interchanged by the wearer without requiring the use of specialized tools, single-use fasteners or permanent fasteners.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the outriggers can function as the primary means of coupling or attaching the anterior and posterior modules, such as between a lens support, an isostatic mechanism, and/or a faceplate. However, in some embodiments, a secondary means of coupling or attaching can be employed. A secondary means of coupling or attaching can comprise a snap-fit member, hook and loop member, and/or other types of interference fit or frictional engagement members.
DDDD:: For example, as shown in FIGS. 46-47, the posterior frame component 1004 can comprise on or more fastening members 1140 configured to engage with a corresponding fastening member 1142 of the frame 1010. The fastening members 1140, 1142 can comprise hooks and loops that are formed on the respective ones of the posterior frame component 1004 and the frame 1010. The arrows in FIG. 47 illustrate the general mating arrangement of the fastening members 1140, 1142. These components can be reversed in some embodiments, such that the posterior frame component 1004 comprises one or more protrusions or hooks that can mate with one or more apertures or loops formed on the frame 1010. Further, other structures can be used, including the snap-fit members, protrusions, slots, channels, apertures, plugs, loops, whether deformable, deflectable, compressible, incompressible, or rigid. Such structures can be formed monolithically with the respective part such that the structures and the part form a single, continuous part. However, the structures can also be separately attached to the respective part. As illustrated in FIG. 46, in some embodiments, the fastening members 1140 can be formed monolithically with the posterior frame component 1004. This can advantageously reduce costs and increase the facility of coupling the posterior frame component 1004 with the frame 1010.
DDDD:: These secondary connectors can be used in combination with the outriggers to couple the anterior and posterior modules together. Further, these secondary connectors can be disposed on portions of the anterior and posterior modules that are generally abutting when the anterior and posterior modules are positioned or coupled together as an assembly. In particular, these secondary connectors can be used as an initial coupling mechanism to hold the anterior and posterior modules together as an assembly while the outriggers are attached or detached from the assembly. Thus, the overall assembly, including the outriggers and other components discussed herein, can enable a wearer to quickly manipulate an interchange any given component of the assembly.
DDDD:: Referring to FIGS. 48A-B, the outrigger 1200 can comprise fastening portions 1220, 1222. The fastening portions 1220, 1222 can be configured to engage with and secure the at least the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 together. For example, at least one of the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 can comprise one or more coupling regions where the fastening portions 1220, 1222 can engage with the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212. As shown in FIGS. 49-50, the goggle 1000 can comprise upper and lower coupling regions 1224, 1226 that can act as designated areas along the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 whereat the fastening portions 1220, 1222 can be coupled. In some embodiments, the coupling regions 1224, 1226 can comprise at least one structure, such as a recess, protrusion, slot, groove, aperture, and/or passage that can be used to engage with the fastening portions 1220, 1222 of the outrigger 1200. In the illustrated embodiment, the coupling regions 1224, 1226 can comprise a recess formed in the anterior frame portion 1022. In addition, some embodiments can be configured such that other components such as the lens can be secured or engaged by the fastening portions 1220, 1222.
DDDD:: Further, in some embodiments, the fastening portions 1220, 1222 of the outrigger 1200 can comprise recessed portions 1230, 1232 formed adjacent to sidewalls 1234, 1236. The recessed portions 1230, 1232 and the sidewalls 1234, 1236 can be configured to receive and secure portions of the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 together. As shown in FIG. 51, the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 can be coupled together with portions thereof being received into the recessed portions 1230, 1232 of the fastening portions 1220, 1222. The sidewalls 1234, 1236 of the fastening portions 1220, 1222 of the outrigger 1200 can be positioned against the posterior frame portions 1212 while a corresponding wall or body of the outrigger 1200 can be positioned against the anterior frame portion 1022.
DDDD:: The fastening portions 1220, 1222 can be clamped or snapped onto the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 to secure the engagement between the outrigger 1200 and the frame. Thus, in some embodiments, the fastening portions 1220, 1222 can comprise protrusions or recesses that snap against corresponding recesses or protrusions of the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212. Further, the fastening portions 1220, 1222 can fit tightly over the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 to secure them together.
DDDD:: FIGS. 49-51 illustrate positions of the outrigger 1200 as it is being moved into engagement with the goggle. The initial placement of the outrigger 1200 relative to the frame can be facilitated using a pin on the outrigger 1200. For example, as shown in FIGS. 48B-49, the outrigger 1200 can comprise an engagement pin 1240 that extends from a body of the outrigger 1200. The pin 1240 can be configured to engage with one or both of the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 and provide a rotational engagement between the outrigger 1200 and the frame. The pin 1240 can also fix the position of the outrigger 1200 relative to the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 when the outrigger 1200 is in a final assembled position, as discussed below.
DDDD:: During assembly, the pin 1240 of the outrigger 1200 can be inserted an aperture 1242 of the link 1030 of the goggle 1000 and into an aperture 1244 of the anterior frame portion 1022. The top view of FIG. 49 illustrates an alignment axis 1250 along which the pin 1240 must pass to be aligned with the apertures 1242, 1244. After the pin 1240 has been passed through the apertures 1242, 1244, the outrigger 1200 can be rotated toward an assembled position (shown in FIG. 51) until the fastening portions 1220, 1222 snap into engagement with the coupling regions 1224, 1226 formed in the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212. The succession of the rotational motion 1252 is illustrated in FIGS. 50-51.
DDDD:: Once in the assembled position as shown in FIG. 51, the outrigger 1200 can engage and clamp both the anterior and posterior frame portions 1022, 1212 together in a secure arrangement. The outriggers can thus interconnect the components or modules of the goggle together without requiring the use of specialized tools, single-use fasteners or permanent fasteners. This superior interchangeability allows the wearer to customize and replace components or modules as desired. For example, the wearer can replace the posterior frame portion 1212 depending on a desired activity or comfort level. Similarly, the anterior frame portion 1022 can also be replaced as desired.
DDDD:: The features and structures of some embodiments, such as the substantially rigid anterior module 900, can be incorporated into any variety of goggle embodiments. For example, a substantially rigid anterior module can be used in combination with an isostatic faceplate mechanism. Further, a substantially rigid anterior module can be used in combination with an interchangeable lens structure.
DDDD:: FIGS. 52-58 illustrate yet another embodiment of eyewear that can incorporate features and aspects, in whole or part, of embodiments and structures discussed above. The embodiment illustrates another quick release lens mechanism that can be used with a goggle as well as an eyeglass. Although the illustrated embodiment shows an eyeglass, the quick release lens mechanism can also be used with a goggle.
DDDD:: FIG. 52 is a perspective view of an eyeglass 1500, according to an embodiment. The eyeglass 1500 can comprise a unique quick release lens mechanism having an active restraint 1502 and a passive restraint 1504 that can serve to secure a lens 1506 relative to the eyeglass 1500. The eyeglass 1500 can also comprise a frame 1508 configured to support the lens 1506 in the field of view of the wearer, as discussed herein.
DDDD:: The lens engagement mechanism can operate much like the engagement mechanism described above with respect to FIGS. 31A-32B. The text and figures referenced above will not be repeated here, but are incorporated by reference and are considered to be alternative structures that can be used with other types of eyewear, such as the eyeglasses 1500 shown in FIGS. 52-58.
DDDD:: Referring to FIGS. 52-53, the passive restraint 1504 can comprise an engagement socket 1510 configured to engage with a corresponding retention structure 1512 of the lens 1506. The retention socket 1510 can be formed to comprise an engagement member 1520, such as a protrusion, slot, and/or recess that can engage with a corresponding recess, slot, and/or protrusion formed as the retention structure 1512 of the lens 1506. In the illustrated embodiment, the engagement member 1520 of the retention socket 1510 comprises a protrusion that is received into a slot (retention structure 1512) formed along a first lateral end 1522 of the lens 1506 when the first lateral end 1522 of the lens is inserted into the retention socket 1510.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the engagement member 1520 of the retention socket 1510 can be positioned on an inner, anterior face of the retention socket 1510 such that the engagement member 1520 can engage a retention structure (such as an aperture) formed in the lens 1506 from a position anterior to the lens 1506. However, the engagement member 1520 can also be positioned on an inner posterior face of the retention socket 1510 such that the engagement member 1520 can engage a retention structure (such as an aperture) formed in the lens 1506 from a position posterior to the lens 1506.
DDDD:: Additionally, the active restraint 1502 can be configured to engage with a second lateral end 1528 of the lens 1506 in order to at least partially constrain the lens 1506 against anterior motion. For example, the active restraint 1502 can comprise a gate 1530. The gate 1530 can be moved between an engaged position and a disengaged position in order to allow the lens 1506 to be retained or released relative to the frame 1508 of the eyeglass 1500. In some embodiments, the gate 1530 can pivot relative to the frame 1508. In other embodiments, the gate 1530 can slide or translate relative to the frame 1508. The gate 1530 can be attached to the frame 1508 and maintained connected with the frame 1508 while in the engaged or disengaged positions. However, the gate 1530 can also be detachable from the frame 1508 and separable therefrom.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the active restraint 1502 can further comprise a latch member 1532. As illustrated in FIGS. 55-57, the latch member 1532 can be moved between a locked position and an unlocked position. FIG. 55 illustrates the gate 1530 in a disengaged or open position and the latch member 1532 in the unlocked or open position. FIG. 56 illustrates the gate 1530 in an engaging or closed position and the latch member 1532 in the unlocked or open position. FIG. 57 illustrates the gate 1530 in an engaged or closed position and the latch member 1532 in the locked position. In some embodiments, when the latch member 1532 is in the unlocked position (as shown in FIGS. 55-56), the gate 1530 can rotate freely. However, when the latch member 1532 is in the locked position (as shown in FIG. 57), the gate 1530 can be constrained against rotation.
DDDD:: For example, the latch member 1532 can comprise an elongate body having a slot 1540 formed therein. The slot 1540 can be configured to receive a hinge pin 1542 that forms a pivot joint with the frame 1508, the gate 1530, and an earstem (not shown). The slot 1540 can be an elongate slot such that when the pin 1542 is received therein, the pin 1542 can travel between first and second ends of the slot, which can provide relative sliding movement between the pin 1542/frame 1508 and the latch member 1532. For example, the slot 1540 can define a travel distance of between at least about 0.1 inches and/or less than or equal to about 0.5 inches. In some embodiments, the travel distance can be about 0.3 inches. In such an embodiment, the latch member 1532 can slide between at least two positions, such as the locked and unlocked positions mentioned above. In the locked position, the pin 1542 is disposed in a first end of the slot 1540, and in the unlocked position, the pin 1542 is disposed in a second end of the slot 1540. In order to facilitate movement of the latch member 1532, the latch member 1532 can comprise a tab or gripping end that enables a wearer to grip and pull or push the latch member 1532 between the locked and unlocked positions.
DDDD:: The latch member 1532 can also be configured to engage a portion of the frame 1508 for preventing movement of the gate 1530 relative to the frame 1508. The latch member 1532 can comprise an engaging end 1550 having a tooth or projection formed thereon. When in the locked position, as shown in FIG. 57, the engaging end 1550 of the latch member 1532 can contact against a portion 1552 of the frame 1508 to prevent rotation of the latch member 1532.
DDDD:: In some embodiments, the engaging end 1550 can define a slot for receiving the portion 1552 of the frame 1508. The illustrated embodiment of FIG. 58 shows a pair of opposing teeth with a slot disposed therebetween. The slot of the engaging end 1550 can thereby receive the portion 1552 of the frame 1508 and resist rotational movement in either direction relative to the frame 1508. Further, the engaging end 1550 can further comprise an engagement mechanism for engaging with a corresponding structure of the portion 1552 of the frame 1508 for maintaining the latch member 1532 in the locked position. The engagement mechanism can comprise a protrusion and/or recess for engaging (i.e., by frictional or snap engagement) with a corresponding recess and/or protrusion of the frame 1508.
DDDD:: Further, as illustrated in FIG. 58, in some embodiments, the latch member 1532 and the gate 1530 can be rotationally coupled relative to each other and in contact such that the gate 1530 cannot rotate without the latch member 1532 and visa versa. Thus, the sliding movement of the latch member 1532 between locked and unlocked positions to prevent or permit rotational movement of the latch member 1532 also prevents or permits movement of the gate 1530 relative to the frame 1508. Accordingly, in some embodiments, rotational movement of the gate 1530 can be restrained relative to the frame 1508 by sliding the latch member 1532 between locked and unlocked positions. The latch member 1532 can pivot along with the gate 1530 when the latch member 1532 is in the unlocked position, as shown in FIG. 58, because the engaging end 1550 of the latch member 1532 has been pulled back to provide rotational clearance from the portion 1552 of the frame 1508 that would otherwise prevent rotation of the latch member 1532 if the latch member 1532 were in the locked position.
DDDD:: Referring again to FIGS. 53 and 54, in some embodiments, the lens 1506 and the frame 1508 can comprise corresponding engagement structures disposed adjacent to the second end 1528 of the frame 1508 for enhancing the engagement of the lens 1506 relative to the frame 1508. The engagement structures can comprise corresponding slots, protrusions, and/or recesses that engage with each other to provide further stability and engagement. In the illustrated embodiment, the lens 1506 can further comprise an aperture 1560 and the frame can further comprise a protrusion 1562. The protrusion 1562 can be received into the aperture 1560 of the lens 1506. This engagement can provide initial stability and fixation when installing the lens 1506 into the frame 1508. Thereafter, the gate 1530 can be closed to cover a portion of the second lateral end 1528 of the lens 1506 to provide additional constraint of the lens 1506 relative to the frame 1508.
DDDD:: Further, in some embodiments, the gate 1530 can comprise a corresponding retention structure 1564 configured to engage with a portion of the lens 1506 and/or a portion of the frame 1508. The retention structure 1564 can comprise a protrusion, slot, and/or recess that that can provide a further engagement of the gate 1530 relative to the frame 1508. For example, a protrusion of the gate 1530 could be snap fitted into an aperture or edge of the frame 1508 to reduce accidental dislodgement of the gate 1530 from the engaged position.
DDDD:: Additionally, although FIGS. 52-58 illustrate an embodiment of an eyeglass having a partial orbital, it is contemplated that these features can also be implemented with a full orbital frame. Additionally, the alternative lens retention mechanisms disclosed further above can also be incorporated into eyewear, such as an eyeglass having partial or full orbitals.
DDDD:: In addition, in accordance with some of the embodiments of the goggle discussed above, the present inventions also provide for methods of interchanging/modifying anterior and/or posterior modules of the goggle, an isostatic faceplate of the goggle, a lens and/or retention mechanism of the goggle, and/or a rigid faceplate of the goggle. Thus, various methods are provided for using and interchanging/modifying the goggle using a modular system to incorporate desired characteristics and properties utilizing one or more of the features of the goggle embodiments discussed above. These methods can be performed at a point-of-sale by a seller or periodically as needed by an owner/wearer. The methods can be performed in a single instance or repeatedly over the life of the goggle. Kits can also be provided that can include one or more of the components discussed above and/or other components for use with an embodiment of the goggles.
DDDD:: Although these inventions have been disclosed in the context of certain preferred embodiments and examples, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present inventions extend beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and/or uses of the inventions and obvious modifications and equivalents thereof. In addition, while several variations of the inventions have been shown and described in detail, other modifications, which are within the scope of these inventions, will be readily apparent to those of skill in the art based upon this disclosure. It is also contemplated that various combination or sub-combinations of the specific features and aspects of the embodiments may be made and still fall within the scope of the inventions. It should be understood that various features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments can be combined with or substituted for one another in order to form varying modes of the disclosed inventions. Thus, it is intended that the scope of at least some of the present inventions herein disclosed should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described above.
CLI :: 1. Eyewear comprising: a frame; a lens configured to be fitted against the frame; an engagement mechanism comprising a gate, a hinge pin, and a latch member, the gate being coupled to the frame and being operative to move along a first path between an open position and a closed position, the latch member being functionally connected to the gate and being constrained to move along the first path together with the gate upon movement of the gate, the latch member further being movable relative to the gate along a second path between a disengaged position and an engaged position to disengage or engage with at least one of the lens and a portion of the frame to prevent movement of the gate relative to the frame when the latch member is in the engaged position to maintain the lens fitted against the frame, wherein the first path is different from the second path, the first path being a rotational path, wherein the hinge pin defines a generally vertical axis about which the gate and the latch member rotate when moving between the open position and the closed position.
CLD :: 2. The eyewear of claim 1, wherein the latch member is slidable relative to the gate.
CLD :: 3. The eyewear of claim 2, wherein the second path is a generally linear path.
CLD :: 4. The eyewear of claim 3, wherein the linear path is generally horizontal.
CLD :: 5. The eyewear of claim 1, further comprising a biasing member disposed intermediate the latch member and the gate, the biasing member being configured to urge the latch member to the engaged position.
CLD :: 6. The eyewear of claim 1, wherein the lens is a unitary lens.
CLD :: 7. The eyewear of claim 1, wherein the engagement mechanism is located in a first lateral region of the eyewear.
CLD :: 8. The eyewear of claim 7, further comprising a second engagement mechanism located in a second lateral region of the eyewear.
CLD :: 9. The eyewear of claim 8, wherein the second engagement mechanism comprises a protrusion for receiving a recess on the lens.
CLD :: 10. The eyewear of claim 1, wherein the engagement mechanism comprises a protrusion that is received in a recess or slot on the lens.
CLI :: 11. Eyewear comprising: a frame; a lens configured to be fitted against the frame; an engagement mechanism comprising a gate, a hinge pin, and a latch member, the gate being coupled to the frame and being operative to move along a first path between an open position and a closed position, the latch member being functionally connected to the gate and being constrained to move along the first path together with the gate upon movement of the gate, the latch member further being movable relative to the gate along a second path between a disengaged position and an engaged position to disengage or engage with at least one of the lens and a portion of the frame to prevent movement of the gate relative to the frame when the latch member is in the engaged position to maintain the lens fitted against the frame, wherein the first path is different from the second path, the first path being a rotational path, wherein the hinge pin defines a first rotational axis about which the gate and the latch member rotate when moving between the open position and the closed position, wherein the latch member comprises an elongate slot and wherein the hinge pin passes through the elongate slot when the latch member and the gate are in an assembled state.
CLD :: 12. The eyewear of claim 11 wherein the latch member is slideable relative to the gate such that the hinge pin moves between first and second ends of the elongate slot when the latch member is moved between the disengaged and engaged positions.
CLI :: 13. Eyewear comprising: a frame; a lens configured to be fitted against the frame; an engagement mechanism comprising a gate and a latch member, the gate being coupled to the frame and being operative to move along a first path between an open position and a closed position, the latch member being functionally connected to the gate and being constrained to move along the first path together with the gate upon movement of the gate, the latch member further being movable relative to the gate along a second path between a disengaged position and an engaged position to disengage or engage with at least one of the lens and a portion of the frame to prevent movement of the gate relative to the frame when the latch member is in the engaged position to maintain the lens fitted against the frame, wherein the first path is different from the second path, wherein the latch member comprises an engaging end configured to mate against at least one of the frame and the lens, the engaging end of the latch member comprising a toothed portion having a ramped surface, the ramped surface being configured to contact the frame as the latch member is moved from the disengaged position to the engaged position.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Elbow pad and upper body garment with elbow reinforcement
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661563
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 13249328
APDT:: 20110930
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 886
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 1176
INVS:: EVANS LINDSAY M.|PERRY TAM'RA|FLORA MARTIN L.|SANTO MARIA-PAZ S.
APLS:: EVANS LINDSAY M.|PERRY TAM'RA|FLORA MARTIN L.|SANTO MARIA-PAZ S.
LREP:: DORITY & MANNING, P.A.
ASSE:: MASSIF MOUNTAIN GEAR COMPANY, LLC
EXMR:: MORAN KATHERINE
NCLS:: 18
NCLI:: 2
NCLD:: 16
NFIG:: 11
DSCL:: 3436
SUML:: 931
BKGL:: 285
DDRL:: 407
DDSL:: 2241
CLFL:: 191
CLIL:: 192
CLDL:: 249
NREF:: 33
NRFA:: 29
NRFX:: 4
IPCC:: A-A-41-D-13-08-F-I
USCC::   2 16||223 72|  2459|  2 24|  2 81|128881|
SFLD:: 128881
RLDX:: PRV:61422720:20101214|XXX:20120144542:20120614
NRLD:: 2
NPRV:: 1
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: An elbow pad is provided for an upper body garment with a sleeve portion having a shoulder end and a wrist end. The elbow pad includes padding material and a substantially J-shaped preferential fold line. The preferential fold line is configured so that the padding material bends along the preferential fold line to cup the wearer's elbow. The elbow pad may have multiple layers. The elbow pad may be attached to an upper body garment, and may be done so as to fill an opening in a sleeve portion of the garment.
DHXX:: CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
DDXX:: The present application is based on and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application 61/422,720 having a filing date of Dec. 14, 2010, which is incorporated by reference herein.
DHXX:: TECHNICAL FIELD
DDXX:: The present disclosure relates to an elbow pad and an upper body garment with reinforcement for a wearer's elbow.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND
DDBK:: Various garments have employed reinforcement at areas prone to additional wear or pressure. Such reinforcements need to balance competing interests such as comfort, durability, air and moisture permeability, and thermal suitability, etc. For example, an elbow pad for a garment that provides superior abrasion resistance may not provide comfort for a wearer in a warm environment in terms of seam location, thickness, permeability, etc. Garments having multiple similar layers at the elbow may provide comfort but insufficient strength and durability.
DDBK:: Military garments provide particular challenges due to the high performance requirements and multiple needs that must be met by each component of a garment. Military garments may also have flame or fire resistance, wicking, and/or stretchability needs for wearers in extreme environments. Military wearers may wear garments for longer durations or with other equipment atop or below, including heavy protective covering, body armor, headgear, or the like. Also, where a wearer is to be involved in shooting a rifle or the like, having a stable shooting platform at the elbow area may be desired. Therefore, having an elbow pad that is reliably located at an elbow area in a repeatable fashion and that provides a stable platform for an extended elbow holding a rifle barrel may be important to some wearers.
DDBK:: Accordingly, there is a need for an improved upper body garment, suitable for military wearers but not limited to such persons, and that meets multiple performance and wear criteria, including elbow reinforcement.
DHSM:: SUMMARY
DDSM:: The present disclosure is directed generally to elbow pads and upper body garments having reinforced elbow sections. According to certain aspects of the disclosure, an elbow pad is provided for an upper body garment with a sleeve portion having a shoulder end and a wrist end. The elbow pad includes padding material configured in an elbow pad shape, and a substantially J-shaped preferential fold line. The preferential fold has a first section extending from a first end of the padding material for placement facing the shoulder end toward a second end of the padding material for placement facing the wrist end. The preferential fold line curves in a central area of the padding material and has a second section extending to a forward side of the padding material. The preferential fold line is configured so that the padding material bends along the preferential fold line to cup the wearer's elbow. Various options and modifications are available.
DDSM:: For example, the preferential fold line may comprise a first preferential fold line and the each elbow pad may include a second preferential fold line, the second preferential fold line extending from a first end of the padding material to the second end of the padding material and crossing the second section of the first preferential fold line, with the second preferential fold line being configured to further cup the wearer's elbow. Also, the preferential fold line or lines may be formed in part by stitching penetrating the padding material. The padding material may have a convex shape extending outward in the central area.
DDSM:: If desired, the padding material may have an inner layer, an intermediate layer, and an outer abrasion resistant layer. If so, the intermediate layer of the padding material may be an open cell foam, or may be other padded material. At least one of the padding material layers may be permeable by at least one of air or moisture. The padding material layers may also be attached together in a non-planar, cupped orientation so as to enhance a convex shape. Further, if desired, at least one of the padding material layers may be at least one of flame resistant or fire resistant.
DDSM:: According to other aspects of the disclosure, an upper body garment is provided with reinforcement for a wearer's elbow, the garment including a torso portion, two sleeve portions, and two elbow pads. Each sleeve portion has a shoulder end attached to the torso portion and a wrist end extending distally from the shoulder end. Each sleeve portion is formed of a sleeve material in a substantially tubular shape, and the sleeve material defines a location for the wearer's elbow. Each elbow pad is attached to a respective sleeve portion at the location for the wearer's elbow. Each elbow pad has a substantially J-shaped preferential fold line. The preferential fold line has a first section extending from a first end of the elbow pad facing the shoulder end of the sleeve portion toward a second end of the elbow pad facing the wrist end of the sleeve portion. The preferential fold line curves in a central area of the elbow pad and has a second section extending to a forward side of the elbow pad. The preferential fold line is configured so that the elbow pad bends along the preferential fold line to cup the wearer's elbow. As above, various options and modifications are possible.
DDSM:: For example, the preferential fold line may comprise a first preferential fold line and each elbow pad may include a second preferential fold line. The second preferential fold line extends from a first end of the elbow pad to the second end of the elbow pad and crosses the second section of the first preferential fold line. The second preferential fold line is configured to further cup the wearer's elbow. If desired, the preferential fold lines or lines may be formed in part by stitching penetrating the elbow pad. The elbow pad may have a convex shape extending outward in the central area.
DDSM:: The sleeve material may define an opening at the elbow location and the elbow pad may be sized larger than the opening. The opening may be defined by edges extending circumferentially around the opening. The elbow pad may be attached to the sleeve portion underneath the edges so as to fill the opening with the elbow pad. The elbow pad may also be attached to the sleeve portion underneath the opening in a non-planar, cupped orientation so as to enhance a convex shape.
DDSM:: If desired, each elbow pad may include an inner layer, an intermediate layer, and an outer abrasion resistant layer. If so, the intermediate layer of the padding material may be an open cell foam, or may be other padded material. The elbow pad layers may be attached together in a non-planar, cupped orientation so as to enhance a convex shape. If desired, at least one of the elbow pad layers may be at least one of flame resistant or fire resistant.
DDSM:: These and other features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with reference to the following description and appended claims. The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention and, together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the invention.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: A full and enabling disclosure of the present invention, including the best mode thereof to one skilled in the art, is set forth more particularly in the remainder of the specification, including reference to the accompanying figures, in which:
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is a front perspective view of an upper body garment with reinforced elbow areas;
DDDR:: FIG. 2 is a front view of the garment of FIG. 1;
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is a rear view of the garment of FIG. 1;
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is a left side view of the garment of FIG. 1;
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is a right side view of the garment of FIG. 1;
DDDR:: FIG. 6 is a top view of the garment of FIG. 1;
DDDR:: FIG. 7 is a bottom view of the garment of FIG. 1;
DDDR:: FIG. 8 is a front perspective view of the garment of FIG. 1, as worn;
DDDR:: FIG. 9 is a rear perspective view of a portion of the garment of FIG. 1 as worn with the wearer's elbow straightened;
DDDR:: FIG. 10 is a rear perspective view of a portion of the garment of FIG. 1 as worn with the wearer's elbow bent; and
DDDR:: FIG. 11 is a sectional view of an elbow area of the garment of FIG. 1 taken along line 11-11 in FIG. 9.
DDDR:: Repeat use of reference characters in the present specification and drawings is intended to represent the same or analogous features or elements.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION
DDDD:: Reference now will be made in detail to embodiments of the upper body garment with reinforced elbow areas, one or more examples of which are illustrated in the drawings. Each example is provided by way of explanation, not limitation. In fact, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present disclosure without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. For instance, features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used with another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment. Thus, it is intended that the present disclosure covers such modifications and variations as come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.
DDDD:: FIG. 1 shows an upper body garment 20 incorporating aspects of the present disclosure. As shown, garment 20 is a shirt, but it should be understood that the upper body garment as discussed and claimed herein could be any garment suitable for wearing on an upper body portion. Therefore, the present disclosure could also be directed to an undershirt, a shirt, a top layer garment such as a sweatshirt or jacket, etc., and upper body garment should not be restrictively interpreted to mean only a shirt.
DDDD:: Upper body garment 20 includes a torso portion 22 and two sleeve portions 24. Each sleeve portion 24 has a shoulder end 26 attached to torso portion 22 and a wrist end 28 extending distally from the shoulder end.
DDDD:: As shown, torso portion 22 and sleeve portion 24 may be made from various pieces of fabric, stitched together. The fabric pieces may have different properties depending on the location on the wearer's body. For example, a first fabric may be used on torso side and underarm sections 30,32,34 and sleeve portions 24. A second fabric may be used on torso chest sections 36,37,38, collar section 40, and torso back section 42. The fabrics may be stretchable, breathable, wicking, and flame resistant. The collar, chest and back sections may differ from the side and sleeve sections by providing more wicking and breathability. The side and sleeve sections may provide enhanced flame and heat protection, which may be useful if the wearer is also wearing body armor providing additional torso protection but leaving the arms more exposed.
DDDD:: As shown, stitching on garment 20 is intended to be comfortable to wearers in various environments, including warm weather locales. Therefore, stitching may be avoided at locations where it could be uncomfortable, in particular in combination with the wearing of other garments or body armor, and where perspiration and dusty conditions might cause discomfort. Pockets provided may be low-profile as well, providing functionality and comfort. Loop connector portions (such as Velcro(R)) may be provided for receiving patches providing name, rank, unit, flag, etc., information. Pockets may be zipper closed for security, and there may be gathers at sleeve ends, waist areas, etc. Any zippers, pulls, pockets or other add-ons may provide thermal or flame resistance. Infra-red identification elements may be provided and may be made selectively concealable as well.
DDDD:: It should be understood that the above optional structures may be useful in the disclosed upper body garment, in particular for military use. However, many variations and options are possible with such a garment according to the present disclosure. Thus, many different shirt and other upper body garments may benefit from the present disclosure regardless of garment structure and optional features.
DDDD:: As shown, each sleeve portion 24 includes an opening 44 therethrough between the shoulder end 26 and the wrist end 28 (see FIG. 3). Openings 44 may be defined by multiple fabric sections on sleeves 24. For example, an opening 44 may be formed by edges of the sleeve sections 46,48,50, although it would be possible to employ more or fewer sections if desired for reasons such as wearability, comfort, functionality (such as pocket location), manufacturing ease, etc. Fabric sections 46, 48, 50 may comprise the same type of fabric or different types of fabric.
DDDD:: Elbow pads 52 are located in each opening 44 in sleeve portions 24. As shown in FIG. 11, elbow pads 52 are attached from an inside portion of the sleeves. That is, openings 44 are defined by edges 54, and elbow pads 52 are slightly larger than the openings and attached beneath the edges. Elbow pads 52 are held in place by stitching 56 surrounding the elbow pads. As shown in FIG. 11, overlapped layers and/or serged stitching may be provided for strength. Such structure provides benefits such as a low profile allowing for less abrasion damage during wear. Elbow pads 52 fill openings 44 from the inside as illustrated, but it should be understood that the elbow pads could be attached in other ways, such as to an inner or an outer sleeve surface, with or without any opening.
DDDD:: As shown, elbow pads 52 are formed from padding material and have three layers, although other numbers of layers are possible. Inner layer 58 may be formed of the same material as the remainder of sleeve portion 24, or if desired, torso portion 22. Breathability, moisture management, and/or comfort of the wearer are concerns for selecting this fabric. If desired, a brushed tricot or jersey knit for example may be employed for inner layer 58. Outer layer 60 may also be the same material.
DDDD:: However, if desired, outer later 60 may be a stronger fabric, having abrasion resistance and cut and tear resistance. Therefore a nylon canvas type material or a twill with or without stretch properties could be employed for example for outer layer 60.
DDDD:: Outer layer 60 may also be reinforced in various ways, such as by use of a coating. Such reinforcement could comprise a continuous or discontinuous polymer coating. As shown, a pattern of polymer dots 62 is applied to the outer surface of outer layer 60. Such dots may comprise a material such as a thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU), although other materials and patterns could be employed for reinforcement, or no reinforcement could be used if desired. Use of a discontinuous reinforcement allows for the benefits of the fabric in terms of stretchability, breathability, fire-resistance, etc., discussed above to be present at the elbow pad, while the discontinuous coating provides additional desired benefits of strength and abrasion resistance without meaningfully degrading the benefits of the fabric.
DDDD:: As shown, padding may be provided by an intermediate layer 64. Layer 64 may be formed in a single piece with two sides 66,68, separated by preferential fold stitching 70. If desired, intermediate layer 64 may comprise a closed cell foam or an open cell foam such as urethane, polyurethane or other materials. Use of open cell foam allows elbow pad 52 to be breathable throughout, as compared to closed cell foam or some other material. Alternatively, a spacer mesh type product or any other type of padding material could be used. If desired, the intermediate layer may provide shock attenuation, shock resistance, and/or stability for use by a wearer when the arm is extended for shooting. If desired, the stitching, fabric, and padding can be dimensioned and tensioned so that the elbow pad is slightly convex in an outer direction complimentary to the elbow shape whether or not the wearer's elbow is bent (See FIG. 9). Intermediate layer 64 could be formed of multiple pieces or multiple sub-layers, if desired. Further, different layers of similar or different materials could be bonded together forming a single piece or layer, if desired. Intermediate layer 64 or other layers 58,60 may be fire or flame resistant if desired. Accordingly, coatings such as phosphorus compounds, halogen compounds such as bromine with a binder, or the like may be employed. Suitable known compounds meeting Underwriters Laboratories fire resistance specification UL 94 HF-1 could be used, available from various suppliers, to coat one or more of such layers.
DDDD:: As shown in FIGS. 3, 9, and 10, at least one preferential fold line 72 may be formed in elbow pad 52. If desired, more preferential fold lines may be provided, for example by second preferential fold line 74. Preferential fold lines 72,74 may allow for wearer comfort when the arm is extended or bent. Fold lines 72,74 can help locate elbow pad 52 at the elbow for comfort and protection when the arm is bent. During bending in particular, the fold lines 72,74 help form a cup shape and locate the pad at the proper spot to protect the elbow, both in the longitudinal (wrist-shoulder) direction, and circumferentially around the arm. However, even when the arm is extended, the fold lines help cup the elbow pad slightly to position it at the elbow, either alone or in combination with the slight convex pad shape as mentioned above. Thus, the preferential fold lines can be used to assist in forming a slight convex shape when the arm is extended.
DDDD:: As shown, preferential fold line 72 is substantially J-shaped and has a first section 76 that extends from a first end 78 of elbow pad 52 facing shoulder end 26 of sleeve portion 24 toward a second end 80 of the elbow pad facing wrist end 28 of the sleeve portion. The preferential fold line 72 curves in a central area 82 of elbow pad 52 and has a second section 84 extending to a forward side 86 of the elbow pad. As shown in FIG. 10, preferential fold line 72 is configured so that, when a wearer bends an elbow, elbow pad 52 bends along the preferential fold line to cup the elbow.
DDDD:: Second preferential fold line 74 extends from first end 78 of elbow pad 52 to second end 80 of the elbow pad and crosses second section 84 of first preferential fold line 72 at a point 88. Second preferential fold line 74 is configured to cooperate with first preferential fold line 72 to further cup the elbow when the wearer bends the elbow. As shown, both preferential fold lines 72,74 are substantially curved. By using a J-shaped first preferential fold line 72, above the elbow, there are three pad sections 90,92,94 and below the elbow there are two pad sections 90,96 (note that section 90 curves around in a J-shape). This combination of shapes, separated by preferential fold lines 72,74 provides an effectively flexible while still protective cover to the wearer's elbow, whether straightened or bent. Further, the combination of preferential fold lines 72,74 effectively locates the pad at the elbow when straightened or bent, as opposed to having the pad slide to one side or the other, or up or down the arm.
DDDD:: It should be understood that modifications to the design, placement, and/or garment choice, as well as combinations or sub-combinations of the features mentioned above, are possible within the scope of the present invention. Therefore, use of elbow pads having differing shapes for preferential fold lines, or only one preferential fold line, or more than two preferential fold lines, is possible, whether or not the pad underlies the sleeve opening edge. Also, different materials may be employed than the examples mentioned above for all pieces, coatings, etc.
DDDD:: This written description uses examples to disclose aspects of the invention, including the best mode, and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention, including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims, and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they include structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims, or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.
CLI :: 1. An elbow pad for an upper body garment with a sleeve portion having a shoulder end and a wrist end, the elbow pad comprising: padding material configured in an elbow pad shape; a substantially J-shaped preferential fold line, the preferential fold line having a first section extending from a first end of the padding material for placement facing the shoulder end toward a second end of the padding material for placement facing the wrist end, the preferential fold line curving in a central area of the padding material and having a second section extending to a forward side of the padding material, the preferential fold line configured so that the padding material bends along the preferential fold line to cup the wearer's elbow; and wherein the preferential fold line comprises a first preferential fold line and further including a second preferential fold line, the second preferential fold line extending from a first end of the padding material to the second end of the padding material and crossing the second section of the first preferential fold line, the second preferential fold line configured to further cup the wearer's elbow.
CLD :: 2. The elbow pad of claim 1, wherein the preferential fold line is formed in part by stitching penetrating the padding material.
CLD :: 3. The elbow pad of claim 1, wherein the padding material has a convex shape extending outward in the central area.
CLD :: 4. The elbow pad of claim 1, wherein the padding material has an inner layer, an intermediate layer, and an outer abrasion resistant layer.
CLD :: 5. The elbow pad of claim 4, wherein the intermediate layer of the padding material is an open cell foam.
CLD :: 6. The elbow pad of claim 4, wherein at least one of the padding material layers is permeable by at least one of air or moisture.
CLD :: 7. The elbow pad of claim 4, wherein the padding material layers are attached together in a non-planar, cupped orientation so as to enhance a convex shape.
CLD :: 8. The elbow pad of claim 4, wherein at least one of the padding material layers is at least one of flame resistant or fire resistant.
CLI :: 9. An upper body garment with reinforcement for a wearer's elbow, the garment comprising: a torso portion; two sleeve portions, each sleeve portion having a shoulder end attached to the torso portion and a wrist end extending distally from the shoulder end, each sleeve portion being formed of a sleeve material in a substantially tubular shape, the sleeve material defining a location for the wearer's elbow; and two elbow pads, each elbow pad being attached to a respective sleeve portion at the location for the wearer's elbow, the elbow pad having a substantially J-shaped preferential fold line, the preferential fold line having a first section extending from a first end of the elbow pad facing the shoulder end of the sleeve portion toward a second end of the elbow pad facing the wrist end of the sleeve portion, the preferential fold line curving in a central area of the elbow pad and having a second section extending to a forward side of the elbow pad, the preferential fold line configured so that the elbow pad bends along the preferential fold line to cup the wearer's elbow, the preferential fold line comprising a first preferential fold line, each elbow pad further including, a second preferential fold line. the second preferential fold line extending from a first end of the elbow pad to the second end of the elbow pad and crossing the second section of the first preferential fold line, the second preferential fold line configured to further cup the wearer's elbow.
CLD :: 10. The garment of claim 9, wherein the preferential fold line is formed in part by stitching penetrating the elbow pad.
CLD :: 11. The garment of claim 9, wherein the elbow pad has a convex shape extending outward in the central area.
CLD :: 12. The garment of claim 9, wherein the sleeve material defines an opening at the elbow location and the elbow pad is sized larger than the opening, the opening defined by edges extending circumferentially around the opening, the elbow pad being attached to the sleeve portion underneath the edges so as to fill the opening with the elbow pad.
CLD :: 13. The garment of claim 12, wherein the elbow pad is attached to the sleeve portion underneath the opening in a non-planar, cupped orientation so as to enhance a convex shape.
CLD :: 14. The garment of claim 9, where each elbow pad includes an inner layer, an intermediate layer, and an outer abrasion resistant layer.
CLD :: 15. The garment of claim 14, wherein at least one of the layers of each elbow pad is permeable by at least one of air or moisture.
CLD :: 16. The garment of claim 14, wherein the intermediate layer of each elbow pad is an open cell foam.
CLD :: 17. The garment of claim 14, wherein the elbow pad layers are attached together in a non-planar, cupped orientation so as to enhance a convex shape.
CLD :: 18. The garment of claim 14, wherein at least one of the elbow pad layers is at least one of flame resistant or fire resistant.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Protective articles having a plurality of core members
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661564
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 12471252
APDT:: 20090522
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 1747
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 3304
INVS:: DODD MARK D.
APLS:: DODD MARK D.
LREP:: PATENT CAPITAL GROUP
ASSE:: PINWREST DEVELOPMENT GROUP, LLC.
EXMR:: HUYNH KHOA|KINSAUL ANNA
NCLS:: 16
NCLI:: 2
NCLD:: 14
NFIG:: 20
DSCL:: 6467
SUML:: 313
BKGL:: 337
DDRL:: 735
DDSL:: 6156
CLFL:: 129
CLIL:: 130
CLDL:: 167
NREF:: 78
NRFA:: 51
NRFX:: 27
IPCC:: A-A-41-D-13-00-F-I
USCC::   2 22||602  6|  2272|  2 22|428 48| 16221|  2 24|  2467|602 26|428 52|  2461|  2 22|  2461|428178|  2455|  2424|  2 16|  2232|  2456|  2267|602  5| 89 3602|D291211|  2455|D29100|D29122|  2 22|  2 22|  2242||  2 46||  2455||  2911||  2 81||  2 82||  2227||  2231||  2269||  2 22||  2 23||  2 24||602  5||602 12||602 23||602 36||602 62||602 78|
SFLD::   2242|  2 46|  2455|  2911|  2 81|  2 82|  2227|  2231|  2269|  2 22|  2 23|  2 24|602  5|602 12|602 23|602 36|602 62|602 78
RLDX:: CIP:11057954:20050215:12471252|PRV:61055295:20080522|XXX:20090276933:20091112
NRLD:: 3
NPRV:: 1
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: A protective guard for reducing injury to a shin of a person includes a conformable substrate and a plurality of core members disposed adjacent to a surface of the conformable substrate. The plurality of core members are arranged such that a first of the core members is rotationally movable about at least one axis relative to a second of the core members. A flexible fabric membrane comprised of natural or synthetic fibers is positioned adjacent to at least one of the conformable substrate and the plurality of core members.
DHXX:: CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
DDXX:: This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/057,954, filed Feb. 15, 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 8,220,072; this application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/055,295, filed May 22, 2008. All of the above applications are hereby incorporated by reference.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
DDBK:: 1. Field of the Invention
DDBK:: The present invention relates generally to protective articles and in particular to protective articles to protect persons, animals, and other non-living articles or items from impact or other forces.
DDBK:: 2. Description of Related Art
DDBK:: Guards and other protective equipment is widely used in amateur and professional sports and other activities to protect participants' from injury. For example, in soccer, players often wear shin guards to protect their lower legs in the event that they are kicked by other players during a game. Football players wear protective shoulder and thigh pads to prevent injury due to impact with other players. Baseball players, such as catchers, use protective chest pads to prevent injury if the catcher is struck by the baseball. Without adequate protection in these sports and others, the risk of injury is high. Protective equipment is also used in non-sports settings. One example is the medical industry which uses casts and splints to immobilize and protect areas of a patient's body.
DDBK:: Existing guards and protective equipment provide some protection for the persons or equipment to which the guards are applied, but the guards are typically bulky and uncomfortable. Many times, the guards are a single piece of rigid plastic or other material that is affixed to the protected article. Other times, the guards may be a very thick padding or other material. Obtaining a customized fit between the guard and the protected article is often impossible. In the case of person's wearing the guard, this lack of customized fit makes the guards less comfortable to wear, and the guards could under some circumstances impede the movement of the person. Finally, a guard that does not fit properly also fails to provide maximum impact protection to a person.
DHSM:: SUMMARY
DDSM:: The problems presented by existing protective guards are solved by the systems and methods of the illustrative embodiments described herein. In one embodiment, a protective guard includes an elastomeric sheath having a pocket disposed therein. The protective guard further includes a central core having a plurality of rigid plates. The central core is disposed within the pocket of the elastomeric sheath. The plurality of rigid plates includes a first plate that is joined by at least one hinge to a second plate.
DDSM:: In another embodiment, a protective guard having a conformable substrate and a plurality of core members is provided. The plurality of core members are at least partially embedded within the conformable substrate. The core members are arranged such that a first of the core members is rotationally movable about at least one axis relative to a second of the core members.
DDSM:: In still another embodiment, a protective guard is provided that includes a conformable substrate and a plurality of core members disposed adjacent to a surface of the conformable substrate. The core members are arranged such that a first of the core members is rotationally movable about at least one axis relative to a second of the core members.
DDSM:: In yet another embodiment, a protective guard is provided that includes an elastomeric substrate and a plurality of non-elastomeric core members. The non-elastomeric core members are at least partially embedded within the elastomeric substrate.
DDSM:: Other objects, features, and advantages of the illustrative embodiments will become apparent with reference to the drawings, detailed description, and claims that follow.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: FIG. 1 illustrates a front view of a protective guard according to an illustrative embodiment, the protective guard having a conformable substrate and a central core disposed therein;
DDDR:: FIG. 2 depicts a perspective view of the protective guard of FIG. 1 secured to a leg of a person;
DDDR:: FIG. 3 illustrates a partial front view of the central core of FIG. 1, the central core including a plurality of core members;
DDDR:: FIG. 4 depicts a partial front view of a plurality of round core members according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 5 illustrates a partial front view of a plurality of oval core members according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 5A illustrates a partial front view of a plurality of hexagonal core members according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 6 depicts a partial front view of a plurality of rectangular core members according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 7 illustrates a cross-sectional bottom view of the core members of FIG. 3 taken at VII-VII;
DDDR:: FIG. 8 depicts a cross-sectional bottom view similar to FIG. 7 of a plurality of core members according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 9 illustrates a cross-sectional bottom view of the core members of FIG. 6 taken at IX-IX;
DDDR:: FIG. 10 depicts a cross-sectional bottom view of the conformable substrate and central core of FIG. 1 taken at X-X;
DDDR:: FIG. 11 illustrates a cross-sectional bottom view similar to FIG. 10 of a conformable substrate and central core according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 12 depicts a cross-sectional bottom view similar to FIG. 10 of a conformable substrate and central core according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 13 illustrates a cross-sectional view of a conformable substrate, a central core, and a flexible membrane according to an illustrative embodiment, the cross-sectional view being similar to the cross-sectional view illustrated in FIG. 10;
DDDR:: FIG. 14 depicts a cross-sectional view similar to FIG. 13 of a conformable substrate, a central core, and a flexible membrane according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 15 illustrates a cross-sectional view similar to FIG. 13 of a conformable substrate, a central core, and a flexible membrane according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 16 depicts a side view of a glove having a central core according to an illustrative embodiment;
DDDR:: FIG. 17 illustrates a rear view of the glove of FIG. 16;
DDDR:: FIG. 18 depicts a perspective view of an article of footwear having a central core according to an illustrative embodiment; and
DDDR:: FIG. 19 illustrates a perspective view of an article of footwear having a central core according to an illustrative embodiment.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENT
DDDD:: In the following detailed description of the illustrative embodiments, reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration specific preferred embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention, and it is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical structural, mechanical, electrical, and chemical changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. To avoid detail not necessary to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention, the description may omit certain information known to those skilled in the art. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting sense, and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.
DDDD:: As used herein, the term "elastomer" refers to a polymeric, rubber (natural or synthetic), or other material that has elongation rates greater than 100%.
DDDD:: The term "conformable" refers to the ability of a material to be shaped to the contours of a surface without permanently deforming or setting the material. The conformable material could be placed adjacent to a first surface to provide a contour fit to the first surface, and then could subsequently be placed adjacent a second surface and similarly provide a contour fit to the second surface.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 1, a protective guard 11 according to the principles of the present invention includes a conformable substrate 13 and a central core 15. The central core 15 is connected to or embedded within the conformable substrate 13 to provide impact protection to a body part of a person. In one embodiment, the conformable substrate 13 may include a pocket 19 (see FIG. 10) within the conformable substrate that houses the central core 15. When the central core 15 is contained within pocket 19, the conformable substrate 13 functions as a sheath, and an entry slot 21 may be optionally provided to allow access to pocket 19, thereby allowing the central core 13 to be selectively removed or inserted into the conformable substrate 13. However, in one embodiment, the pocket 19 is not accessible by an entry slot, thereby creating a sealed space for the conformable substrate 13. The pocket 19 closely matches the shape of the central core 13 and may be formed by molding the conformable substrate 13 around the central core 13.
DDDD:: The conformable substrate 13 may be constructed from an elastomeric material such that the conformable substrate 13 can be easily wrapped around and shaped to the contours of a person's lower leg or shin 61 (see FIG. 2). In one embodiment, the conformable substrate may be made from Monprene MP-1880, a thermoplastic elastomer manufactured by Teknor Apex, Thermoplastic Elastomer Division of Pawtucket, R.I. Other suitable materials may include without limitation other thermoplastic elastomers, ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA), natural rubber, polyisoprene, styrene butadiene rubber, chloroprene rubber, polybutadiene, nitrile rubber, butyl rubber, ethylene propylene rubber, ethylene propylene diene rubber, chlorosulfonated polyethylene, polysulfide rubber, silicone rubber, polyurethane, or open-cell neoprene, energy-absorbent or viscoelastic foam such as a memory foam, or any other conformable material.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 3, the central core 15 includes a plurality of plate members, or core members 31. In one embodiment, each core member is joined by at least one hinge 33 to another of the core members 31 such that the core members 31 are capable of rotational movement relative to one another. The rotational movement between two core members typically occurs along an axis that is positioned between the core members. When hinges 33 are used to connect the core members 31, the axis of rotation corresponds to the rotational axis of the hinge. Representative axes of rotation for the central core 15 of FIG. 3 are illustrated as axis 35a, axis 35b, and axis 35c. The ability of the core members 31 to rotationally move relative to one another allows the central core 15 to be conformable to a shin or other body part of a person even though the material that forms the core members 31 would not necessarily be conformable if used in a singe piece.
DDDD:: Referring more specifically to FIGS. 3-6, the core members may be any shape or size. In one embodiment, the core members 31 may be triangular in shape such as is illustrated in FIG. 3. In another embodiment, a central core 15a is partially shown in FIG. 4 having round core members 31a connected by hinges 33a. FIG. 5 partially illustrates a central core 15b having a plurality of oval core members 31b connected by hinges 33b. FIG. 5A partially illustrates a central core 15e having hexagonal core member 31e connected to hinges 33e. FIG. 6 partially illustrates a central core 15c having rectangular core members 31c connected by hinges 33c. Other shapes may include without limitation octagonal, other polygonal, or free-form shapes.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 7, the core members 31 of protective guard 11 are preferably substantially flat, rigid or semi-rigid plates constructed from a non-elastomeric material. In one embodiment, the core members 31 are made from a hard plastic material such as acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), styrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, acrylic, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), fluoroplastics, nylon, acetal, polycarbonate, polyimide, polyamide-imide, polyphenylene sulfide, polyarylates, polyethylene terephthalate, polybutylene terephthalate, polyether ether ketone, polysulfone, polyether sulfone, polyetherimide, or polyphenylene oxide. However, it should be understood that any substantially rigid material may be used, including composites, metal, ceramics, synthetic fiber materials such as KEVLAR(R), or wood. Although a non-elastomeric material is preferred, the core members 31 may even be formed from an elastomeric material if rotational movement between the core members 31 would allow the elastomeric material to better conform to the shin of a person. Preferably, the material used to form the core members 31, and thus the central core 15, is a material that is compatible with the material chosen for the conformable substrate 13. Since some embodiments involve molding the conformable substrate 13 over the central core 15, it is desirous to use a central core material to which the conformable substrate 13 will adhere. A coating or adhesive may be applied to the central core 15 prior to the molding process to achieve additional adhesion between the central core 15 and the conformable substrate 13.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 9, the central core 15c of FIG. 6 is illustrated in cross section and includes core members 31c connected by hinges 33c. While the core members may be substantially flat so that an impact force directed to the protective guard does not damage the conformable substrate, the core members 31c illustrated in FIG. 9 include ridges 41. The ridges 41 may be capable of absorbing additional energy by flattening in the presence of an impact force. Other alternatives to a substantially flat core member may be provided by a core member that is slightly concave or convex in cross section. The core members could alternatively be fluid-filled capsules such as those containing air or gel, or the core members may also be provided in a mesh configuration that is hinged together similar to chain mail armor.
DDDD:: Referring again to FIG. 7 and also to FIG. 8, the hinges that connect the core members may be provided in several different forms. In one embodiment illustrated in FIG. 7, the hinge 33 is a "living hinge." The living hinge is preferably integrally attached between the core members 31 and is made from the same material as each of the core members 31. The living hinge may be created by machining or etching the core members 31 from a single sheet of material having a relatively constant thickness. The sheet of material is thinned in any region that will become a hinge. This thinning process to create the hinges 33 also creates the general shape of the core members 31. Alternatively, the core members 31 and hinges 33 may be formed by molding or any other manufacturing process, including without limitation injection molding, compression molding, or transfer molding. Living hinges are a strong way of maintaining a rotational connection between core members 31. The living hinges 33 allow repeated rotations between core members 31 while maintaining the relative positions of the core members 31 during the process of assembling the central core 15 and the conformable substrate 13.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 8, another option for providing hinges is illustrated in reference to a central core 15d having core members 31d and hinges 33d. Hinges 33d are formed by arranging precut core members 31d onto a membrane or other material 51 that includes an adhesive or gel to secure the core members 31d to the membrane 51. The membrane 51 could be an adhesive tape or other film, a mesh material or alternatively the membrane could be another piece of plastic or elastomer to which the core members 31d are bonded. In still another embodiment, the membrane could be a thin layer of the material comprising the conformable substrate. Membrane 51 could be applied to both sides of the core members 31d or only on one side as shown in FIG. 8.
DDDD:: Although not illustrated, mechanical, multi-part hinges could also be used to connect adjacent core members.
DDDD:: Referring again to FIG. 3, certain of the core members are located in an outer perimeter region 37, while other of the core members are located in an inner region 39. The core members 31 located in the inner region 39 are preferably connected by hinges 33 along each edge of the core member 31 to each adjacent core member 31. For core members 31 located in the outer perimeter region 37, hinges 33 are only attached to one or two edges of each core member 31. However, regardless of whether a particular core member 31 is disposed within the outer perimeter region 37 or the inner region 39, it is not required that every edge of a core member 31 be connected by a hinge to another core member 31. In fact, hinges are not mandatory. Hinges simply provide a good way to maintain relative positioning of the core members 31 during assembly of the central core 15 and the conformable substrate 13. If the relative positioning of the core members 31 could be maintained without hinges, the fixation of the core members 31 within or to the conformable substrate 13 would allow the desired capability of rotational movement between adjacent core members 31. Alternatives for positioning the core members 31 are discussed below in reference to the assembly of the central core 15 and the conformable substrate 13.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 10, in one embodiment, the protective guard 11 includes core members 31 that are completely embedded within the conformable substrate 13. As mentioned previously, a pocket 19 could be provided with an entry slot that allows for insertion of the central core 15 after the conformable substrate 13 is formed. Alternatively, the central core 15 may be molded within the conformable substrate 13, which would automatically form a pocket 19 around the central core 15. It is preferred that hinges 33 are present between the core members 31 to maintain the relative position of the core members 31 during the molding process. It is possible, however, that the core members 31 be individually placed during the molding process to eliminate the need for the hinges 33. After the molding process, the relative positions (e.g. spacing) of the core members 31 would be fixed within the conformable substrate 13, yet the core members 31 would still be capable of rotational movement relative to one another.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 11, in another embodiment, a protective guard 111 having a conformable substrate 113 and a central core 115 is illustrated. The central core 115 includes a plurality of core members 131 connected by hinges 133. The central core 115 is partially embedded within a pocket 119 of the conformable substrate 113, thereby exposing the core members 131 near a surface of the conformable substrate 113. The central core 115 may be secured to the conformable substrate 113 by the embedding process, or a bonding agent or any other adhesive or gel may be used to further secure the central core 115. Alternatively, the central core 115 may be attached by sewing means, heat fastening means, ultrasonic fastening means, or any other fastening means. As discussed previously in reference to FIG. 10, the hinges 133 between core members 131 could be eliminated if the core members 131 were individually placed during the assembly process. Individual core members 131 could be placed during the molding of the conformable substrate 113, or the core members could be bonded within the pocket 119 of the conformable substrate 113 after the molding process is complete. After securing the core members 131 to the conformable substrate 113, the relative positions (e.g. spacing) of the core members 131 would be fixed, yet the core members 131 would still be capable of rotational movement relative to one another.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 12, in another embodiment, a protective guard 211 having a conformable substrate 213 and a central core 215 is illustrated. The central core 215 includes a plurality of core members 231 connected by hinges 233. In one embodiment, the central core 215 is bonded to a surface of the conformable substrate 213 by a bonding agent, adhesive, or gel. Alternatively, the central core 215 may be attached to the conformable substrate 213 by sewing means, heat fastening means, ultrasonic fastening means, or any other fastening means. As discussed previously with reference to FIGS. 10 and 11, the hinges 233 between core members 231 could be eliminated if the core members 231 were individually placed during the bonding process. After securing the core members 231 to the conformable substrate 213, the relative positions (e.g. spacing) of the core members would be fixed, yet the core members would still be capable of rotational movement relative to one another.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 13, a protective guard 311 according to another embodiment of the invention includes a conformable substrate 313, a central core 315, and a flexible membrane 317. The central core 315 includes a plurality of core members 331 connected by hinges 333. The central core 315 is at least partially embedded within a pocket 319 of the conformable substrate 313, and at least a portion of the central core 315 is covered by flexible membrane 317. While each of the conformable substrate 313, central core 315 and flexible membrane 317 (the three layers) may be adhesively bonded or otherwise attached to the other layers, some of the layers may not be attached to one another. For example, central core 315 may be placed on the conformable substrate 313 without attachment. The flexible membrane 317 may include an adhesive on one side that permits adherence of the flexible membrane 317 to both the central core 315 and the conformable substrate 313, thereby holding the central core 315 in place relative to the conformable substrate 313. Alternatively, the flexible membrane 317 may not be attached to the central core 315 but rather only to the conformable substrate 313. While the pocket 319 could be preformed in the conformable substrate 313 to receive the central core 315, the pocket 319 could instead be formed by an elastic deformation of the conformable substrate 313 in the presence of a compressive force applied by the flexible membrane 317 to the central core 315. If the layers of the protective guard 311 are attached, attachment may be accomplished by a bonding agent or any other adhesive or gel, sewing means, ultrasonic means, heat means, or any other fastening means. As discussed previously in reference to FIG. 10-12, the hinges 333 between core members 331 could be eliminated if the core members 331 were individually placed during the assembly process. Individual core members 331 could be placed during the molding of the conformable substrate 313, or the core members could be bonded within the pocket 319 of the conformable substrate 313 after the molding process is complete. Alternatively, the core members 331 (hinged or unhinged) could be attached to the flexible membrane 317 prior to securing the flexible membrane 317 to the conformable substrate.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 14, a protective guard 411 according to another embodiment of the invention includes a conformable substrate 413, a central core 415, and a flexible membrane 417. The layers of protective guard 411 and the methods of attachment are substantially the same as protective guard 311 described in FIG. 13, with the exception that the central core 415 is not embedded within a pocket of the conformable substrate 413. Instead, the central core 415 is attached to or positioned against an outer surface of the conformable substrate 413. The central core 415 is also similar to those previously described in that the central core 415 includes a plurality of core members 431 connected by hinges 433.
DDDD:: Referring to FIG. 15, a protective guard 511 according to another embodiment of the invention includes a conformable substrate 513, a plurality of core members 515, and a flexible membrane 517. In this embodiment, the core members 515 are not connected by hinges, but rather each core member is placed within a pocket 519 formed in the conformable substrate 513. The flexible membrane 517 is positioned over the conformable substrate 513 and the core members 515 to create a substantially flat impact surface. While each of the conformable substrate 513, the core members 515 and flexible membrane 517 (the three layers) may be adhesively bonded or otherwise attached to the other layers, some of the layers may not be attached to one another. For example, the core members 515 may be placed within the pockets 519 without attachment. The flexible membrane 517 may include an adhesive or gel on one side that permits adherence of the flexible membrane 517 to both the core members 515 and the conformable substrate 513, thereby holding the core members 515 in place relative to the conformable substrate 513. Alternatively, the flexible membrane 517 may not be attached to the core members 515 but rather only to the conformable substrate 513. While the pockets 519 could be preformed in the conformable substrate 513 to receive the core members 515, the pockets 519 could instead be formed by an elastic deformation of the conformable substrate 513 in the presence of a compressive force applied by the flexible membrane 517 to the core members 515. While the conformable substrate 513 is illustrated with multiple pockets 519 in FIG. 15, a single pocket may instead be provided to receive multiple core members 515. If the layers of the protective guard 511 are attached to one another, attachment may be accomplished by a bonding agent or any other adhesive or gel, sewing means, ultrasonic means, heat means, or any other fastening means.
DDDD:: Referring again to FIGS. 13-15, the flexible membrane 317, 417, and 517 may be any flexible material that is capable of being attached to either the conformable substrate or the central core. In one embodiment, the flexible membrane may be a flexible fabric made from natural fabrics including, without limitation, wool, cotton, silk, leather, or linen; or synthetic fibers including, without limitation, acetate, acrylic, latex, spandex, nylon, polyester, rayon; or blends of the above-mentioned fabrics; or any other material that includes natural and/or synthetic fibers that have been weaved, felted, knitted, crocheted, or otherwise arranged. The fabrics may be flame or fire retardant or resistant, such as for example, NOMEX(R).
DDDD:: It is important to note that the membranes, fabrics, conformable substrates, skeletal plates, core members, covers, and backings described herein may be bonded, layered, or connected in part or total to one another or may be layered but not bonded. While the illustrative embodiments described herein have been generally described as including single layers of each component (e.g., conformable substrate, core members, membranes) of the protective guard, any guard or other device incorporating these components may include multiple layers of one or more of the components. Furthermore, for a particular component that is provided in multiple layers, the multiple layers of the component may be arranged adjacent to one another, or may be arranged such that one or more layers of a different component is intermediately disposed between the multiple layers.
DDDD:: In use, the protective guard 11, 111, 211 of the present invention provides impact protection for an extremity or other body part of a person. As shown in FIG. 2, the protective guard 11 is conformable to the shin and lower leg 61 of a person. The conformable substrate 13 and the central core 15 combine to provide superior impact protection. While the conformable substrate 13 by itself is conformable to a leg or other body part, the more rigid characteristics of the material used in the central core 15 would normally not be easily conformable to the person's leg. However, by separating the central core 15 into a plurality of core members 31 and by allowing the core members 31 to be rotationally movable relative to one another, the central core 15 as a whole is also conformable to the leg of the person. The hinges 33 of the central core 15 provide additional impact resistance for point loads and impacts since the hinges are capable of transmitting impact forces to adjacent core members 31. An attachment aperture 65 is provided on each side of the conformable substrate 13 to allow protective guard 11 to be attached to the person's leg with a strap 67 routed through the attachment aperture 65. An ankle guard 71 may also be provided to wrap around the ankle of the person. The ankle guard 71 could include a central core, but preferably is formed solely from the conformable substrate used with protective guard 11, 111, 211. Similarly, the protective guard itself could be formed solely from the conformable substrate and used without the central core. If only the conformable substrate is used, the material may be thicker in areas of predicted impact or may be formed from two or more elastomers having different durometers (i.e. a multi-durometer conformable substrate).
DDDD:: Referring to FIGS. 16 and 17, a glove 611 having a central portion 615, a plurality of finger portions 619; a thumb portion 623, and a wrist portion 627 includes an opening 629 for insertion of a hand. In at least one of or all of the central portion 615, the plurality of finger portions 619, the thumb portion 623, and the wrist portion 627, a pocket 635 may be provided to receive a central core 639 having a plurality of core members connected by hinges as previously described herein. The core members and hinges allow multi-directional movement of the portions of the hand positioned adjacent the central core in each of the central portion 615, the plurality of finger portions 619, the thumb portion 623, and the wrist portion 627. The central core 639 may be a single article that is shaped to fit into multiple of the portions of the glove 611 containing a pocket. Alternatively, an individual central core 639 may be placed in each individual pocket 635 of the glove 611. When pockets are provided, the central core may be positioned within, embedded, partially-embedded, free-floating, adhesively secured, bonded, sewn or otherwise attached as previously described herein. In another embodiment, the pockets 635 of the glove 611 may be eliminated, and the central core 639 or multiple central cores 639 may be secured to an exterior or interior surface of the glove in the region of the central portion 615, the plurality of finger portions 619, the thumb portion 623, and/or the wrist portion 627. As previously described with respect to the flexible membranes of FIGS. 13-15, a flexible membrane may be positioned over the central core 639 to assist in joining the central core 639 to the glove material.
DDDD:: The glove 611 may be used for protection from impact and other potentially detrimental forces encountered in any sports or other activity. For example, inclusion of a central core 639 in the central portion 615 and finger portions 619 over the back of the hand may be desirable for baseball gloves to protect batters from impact by a baseball. A central core 639 may be positioned over the palm of the hand in the central portion 615 to protect motorcyclists, bicyclists, and skaters from impact and abrasive frictional forces that may be caused when the hands are used to cushion an impact with the ground.
DDDD:: Referring to FIGS. 17 and 18, an article of footwear, such as for example a work boot 711 or a hockey skate 811, includes a toe portion 715, a heel portion 719, a tongue portion 725, an outsole 729, and an insole (not shown). In at least one of or all of the toe portion 715, the heel portion 719, the tongue portion 725, the outsole 729, and the insole, a pocket 735 may be provided to receive a central core 739 having a plurality of core members connected by hinges as previously described herein. The core members and hinges allow multi-directional movement (i.e., rotational movement about more than one axis) of the portions of the foot positioned adjacent the central core in each of the toe portion 715, the heel portion 719, the tongue portion 725, the outsole 729, and the insole. The central core 639 may be a single article that is shaped to fit into multiple of the portions of the footwear 711, 811 containing a pocket. Alternatively, an individual central core 739 may be placed in each individual pocket 735 of the footwear 711, 811. When pockets are provided, the central core may be positioned within, embedded, partially-embedded, free-floating, adhesively secured, bonded, sewn or otherwise attached as previously described herein. In another embodiment, the pockets 735 of the footwear 11 may be eliminated, and the central core 739 or multiple central cores 739 may be secured to an exterior or interior surface of the footware in the region of the toe portion 715, the heel portion 719, the tongue portion 725, the outsole 729, and/or the insole. As previously described with respect to the flexible membranes of FIGS. 13-15, a flexible membrane may be positioned over the central core 739 to assist in joining the central core 739 to the footwear material.
DDDD:: The footwear 711 may be used for protection from impact and other potentially detrimental forces encountered in any sports or other activity. For example, inclusion of a central core 739 in the tongue portion 725 of the hockey skate 811 provides significant protection to goalies from hockey-puck impacts. Similarly, a central core 639 may be positioned in the toe portion 715 or heel portion 719 of the work boot 711 to protect against impacts received in industrial or other work-related settings.
DDDD:: It should be noted that the protective guards described herein may be used to protect body parts other than the lower legs, hands, or feet of a person including without limitation the torso, back, forearms, wrists, elbows, thighs, knees, shoulders, chest, face, head, and other extremities. In one example, the central core or protective guard may be combined with helmets or other headwear to protect the head from impact. Body parts may also be protected by combining a central core such as that described herein with clothing, either by sewing the central core to the clothing, within a pocket of the clothing, or by otherwise attaching the central core to the clothing. For example, the central core or protective guard may be combined with shirts, jackets, shorts, pants, hats or other articles of clothing.
DDDD:: The protective guards described herein may also be used to protect body parts of non-human animals as well, or alternatively, non-living articles or equipment. For example, the central cores may be attached or incorporated as described herein to luggage, briefcases, computer travel bags, gun cases, or other bags and storage containers to protect the contents therein. In another example, the central core or protective guard may be attached to or incorporated within athletic flooring, subflooring, or ground covering to provide support and impact resistance. The central cores may be attached to or incorporated into the fabric of clothing to protect various areas of human or other animal bodies. While the protective guards and central cores described herein are often presented as being incorporated into sports and work-related equipment, it should be recognized that the use of these elements may be expanded beyond these particular uses. For example, one or more central cores may be attached to or incorporated into various medical devices such as splints and casts. The inclusion of the central core in these devices would provide additional protection against impact and other forces for the body parts to which the splints and casts are applied. One non-medical example may include attachment or incorporation of one or more central cores to an airplane seat, a car seat, or other seat to create a support frame that prevents impression in the foam or other substrate underlying or overlying the core member. The central core may also protect a user of the seat against impact and other forces. Similarly, the central core could be combined with bed mattresses or other bedding materials to provide support and to prevent impressions in the bedding. As can be seen from the preceding examples, the application of the protective guards and central cores described herein are not limited and may include any application where it is desired to protect humans, animals, or non-living articles or equipment from impact and other forces.
DDDD:: In one additional example, the protective guards described herein may be used to protect hips and other body parts from impact during falls. Hip fractures and other broken bones due to falls result in serious injuries and medical complications for many elderly people. Attachment of the protective guard over a person's hip may help prevent some of these injuries. In one example, a flexible material, such as a surgical tape with an adhesive backing, may be applied to the skin of a patient adjacent the hip. On an outward facing side of the flexible material, one component of a hook-and-loop material may be positioned. A protective guard having a central core such as those described herein may be removably attached to the flexible material using another component of the hook-and-look material that is positioned on the protective guard. The protective guard may be easily replaced, repositioned, or removed for the comfort and safety of the patient. While the protective guard may include both a conformable substrate and a central core, in one embodiment, the central core may be attached to the flexible material or directly to the patient without the use of a conformable substrate. While attachment has been described as using complementary hook-and-loop type material, any fastening means may be used including, without limitation, adhesives, sewing, or other suitable attachment means.
DDDD:: It should be apparent from the foregoing that an invention having significant advantages has been provided. While the invention is shown in only a few of its forms, it is not just limited but is susceptible to various changes and modifications without departing from the spirit thereof.
CLI :: 1. A shin guard for protecting a shin of a person comprising: an elastomeric substrate; a central core having a plurality of rigid plates disposed on or adjacent to the elastomeric substrate, a first edge of a first one of the plurality of plates being hingedly attached to another plate in the plurality of plates substantially adjacent to the first one of the plurality of plates, wherein each hingedly attached edge of the first one of the plurality of plates joins less than the entire respective hingedly attached edge to an edge of a corresponding other substantially adjacent plate in the plurality of plates; and a flexible fabric membrane comprised of natural or synthetic fibers positioned adjacent to at least one of the elastomeric substrate and the central core.
CLD :: 2. The shin guard according to claim 1, wherein each of the plates is joined by at least one hinge to another of the plates.
CLD :: 3. The shin guard according to claim 2, wherein the joining of the plates allows multidirectional rotation of the central core such that the central core, the elastomeric substrate, and the flexible fabric material are conformable to the shin of the person.
CLD :: 4. The shin guard according to claim 1, wherein: a pocket is disposed on a surface of the elastomeric substrate; and the central core is at least partially embedded within the pocket.
CLD :: 5. The shin guard according to claim 4, wherein: the pocket is accessible through an entry slot to allow insertion and removal of the central core; and the central core is fully embedded within the pocket such that a substantially flat impact surface is created when the fabric is adjacent to the at least one of the elastomeric substrates and the central core.
CLD :: 6. The shin guard according to claim 1, wherein the first edge of the first one of the plurality of plates is hingedly attached to another plate in the plurality of plates by a hinge and the hinge is a living hinge formed from the same material as the rigid plates.
CLD :: 7. The shin guard according to claim 1, wherein the first plate is hingedly attached to the other plate by a hinge bonded to the first and other plates.
CLD :: 8. The shin guard according to claim 7, wherein the hinge comprises a membrane having adhesive disposed on at least one surface of the membrane.
CLD :: 9. The shin guard according to claim 1, wherein the plates are hexagonal in shape.
CLD :: 10. The shin guard according to claim 9, wherein: some of the rigid plates are disposed in an outer perimeter region and others of the rigid plates are disposed in an inner region; and each of the rigid plates in the inner region is hingedly attached on each of six edges to an adjacent rigid plate.
CLD :: 11. The shin guard according to claim 1, wherein the fabric is adhesively bonded to at least one of the elastomeric substrates and the central core.
CLI :: 12. A protective guard for protecting a person comprising: a conformable substrate; a plurality of rigid core members disposed adjacent to a surface of the conformable substrate, a first edge of a first one of the plurality of members being hingedly attached to another member in the plurality of members substantially adjacent to the first one of the plurality of plates, wherein each hingedly attached edge of the first one of the plurality of members joins less than the entire respective hingedly attached edge to an edge of a corresponding other substantially adjacent member in the plurality of members, and the plurality of rigid core members are arranged such that the first of the core members is rotationally movable about at least one axis relative to other substantially adjacent members in the plurality of members; and a flexible fabric membrane comprised of natural or synthetic fibers positioned adjacent to at least one of the conformable substrate and the plurality of core members.
CLD :: 13. The protective guard according to claim 12, wherein the core members are arranged such that the core members, as a whole, are conformable to the shin of the person.
CLD :: 14. The protective guard according to claim 12, wherein core members are bonded to the conformable substrate.
CLD :: 15. The shin guard of claim 1, wherein the elastomeric substrate is a foam substrate.
CLD :: 16. The protective guard of claim 12, wherein the conformable substrate is adapted to at least partially absorb an impact force.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Nursing cover
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661565
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 13346664
APDT:: 20120109
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 785
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 2773
INVS:: EKELUND RONNIE MICHAEL|EKELUND CLAIRE RACHAEL JANE
APLS:: EKELUND RONNIE MICHAEL|EKELUND CLAIRE RACHAEL JANE
LREP:: BLAKELY, SOKOLOFF, TAYLOR & ZAFMAN LLP|SZEPESI JUDITH A.
ASSE:: BEBE AU LAIT, LLC
EXMR:: HALE GLORIA
NCLS:: 18
NCLI:: 3
NCLD:: 15
NFIG:: 9
DSCL:: 5115
SUML:: 0
BKGL:: 345
DDRL:: 252
DDSL:: 5172
CLFL:: 141
CLIL:: 142
CLDL:: 131
NREF:: 63
NRFA:: 24
NRFX:: 39
IPCC:: A-A-41-D-1-20-F-I|A-A-41-B-13-00-L-N
USCC::   2104|  2 46|  2 491||  2261|  22601|  2260|  22601|  2264|  2257|427261|  2115|  2256|450 57|450 52|450 41|450 52|450 52| 29447|  2421|  2104|  2104|  2104|  2 48|450 86|602 19|  2 48|442244|450 41|  2 48|450 92|4273899|450 19|450 75|  2 52|450 39|604416|450 39|450 39|450 39|450 92|450 39|442328|  2 46||  2 491- 494|  2 48||  2 50- 52|  2104-106|  2113-115|  2338||  2336||  2255-261
SFLD::   2 46|  2 491- 494|  2 48|  2 50- 52|  2104-106|  2113-115|  2338|  2336|  2255-261
RLDX:: CON:12146152:20080625:13346664|CIP:11507891:20060821:12146152|CIP:11497109:20060731:11507891|XXX:20120102617:20120503
NRLD:: 4
NPRV:: 0
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: Examples of a nursing cover are described, including a cover having a top edge and a stiffener comprised of a shape memory material having a material memory coupled to the cover using a securing mechanism to prevent the stiffener from rotating. In one embodiment, the material memory causes the stiffener to assume a pre-determined shape, to temporarily deform without breaking the stiffener when force is applied to the stiffener, and to reassume the pre-determined shape. In one embodiment, an end of the stiffener provides a substantially smooth surface to prevent abrasion.
DHXX:: RELATED APPLICATIONS
DDXX:: The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12/146,152, filed on Jun. 25, 2008, now U.S. Pat. No. 8,091,145, issued on Jan. 10, 2012, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/507,891, filed Aug. 21, 2006 entitled "Nursing Cover," now U.S. Pat. No. 7,406,718, issued on Aug. 5, 2008, which is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/497,109, filed Jul. 31, 2006 entitled "Nursing Cover," now U.S. Pat. No. 7,409,727, issued on Aug. 12, 2008, which are all incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. The present application is further related to application Ser. No. 12/143,110, filed Jun. 20, 2008, entitled "Nursing Cover," now U.S. Pat. No. 7,805,770. The present application is further related to application Ser. No. 12/143,140, filed Jun. 20, 2008, entitled "Nursing Cover," now U.S. Pat. No. 7,805,771. The present application is further related to application Ser. No. 12/848,041, filed Jul. 30, 2010, entitled "Nursing Cover," currently pending and allowed. The present application is further related to application Ser. No. 12/848,085, filed Jul. 30, 2010, entitled "Nursing Cover," currently pending and allowed.
DHXX:: FIELD OF THE INVENTION
DDXX:: The present invention relates to a cover, and more specifically to a nursing cover.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND
DDBK:: Newborn babies are often breastfed by mothers, which can be an intimate and personal bonding experience between mothers and their babies. When breastfeeding, a mother typically exposes the upper portions of her torso, which may make her uncomfortable if located in a public or highly trafficked area. Conventional solutions for covering exposed areas (e.g., upper torso, breasts, and the like) of a nursing mother have several limitations and are often bulky, uncomfortable, unsafe, or difficult to handle.
DDBK:: In some conventional solutions, large towels or small sheets are used, which are bulky and typically made of heavy, non-breathable material. These types of materials are often too warm to wear, increasing the body temperature of the mother and the baby, resulting in difficult or uncomfortable breastfeeding. Further, heavy, bulky, or non-breathable materials may also pose a risk of asphyxiation or cause overheating with a nursing baby.
DDBK:: Conventional nursing covers are also problematic because they are difficult to wear or secure when worn. Draping or placing a cover, wrap, or sheet over a mother's shoulder to cover the nursing newborn often blocks visibility of the baby. Further, baby movement may cause the cover, wrap, or sheet to slip in position or completely fall off. With conventional techniques, visibility between a mother and her newborn are obscured, preventing the former from observing or monitoring the latter during breastfeeding. Positioning, latching, and other factors can be inhibited or detrimentally affected by conventional covers, wraps, and sheets. Further, mothers are physically restricted in their ability to manage these factors while securing and maintaining a conventional cover, wrap, or sheet in place.
DDBK:: Thus, what is required is a solution for covering a baby while nursing without the limitations of conventional techniques.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: The present invention will be readily understood by the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, and like reference numerals designate like structural elements.
DDDR:: FIG. 1 illustrates a front view of an exemplary nursing cover;
DDDR:: FIG. 2A illustrates a rear view of an exemplary nursing cover;
DDDR:: FIG. 2B illustrates a rear view of an alternative exemplary nursing cover;
DDDR:: FIG. 3 illustrates an alternative frontal view of an exemplary nursing cover when worn;
DDDR:: FIG. 4A illustrates an exemplary stiffener;
DDDR:: FIG. 4B illustrates an exemplary end cap;
DDDR:: FIG. 4C illustrates an exemplary stiffener and end cap;
DDDR:: FIG. 5A illustrates an alternative frontal view of an exemplary nursing cover when worn; and
DDDR:: FIG. 5B illustrates an alternative frontal view of an exemplary nursing cover when worn.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION
DDDD:: Embodiments or examples of the invention may be implemented in numerous ways, including as an apparatus, system, or process. A detailed description of one or more examples is provided below along with accompanying figures. The detailed description is provided in connection with such examples, but is not limited to any particular example. The scope is limited by the claims, but numerous alternatives, modifications, and equivalents are encompassed. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the descriptions provided may be used for implementation according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity, technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the examples has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description.
DDDD:: A nursing cover is described, including a cover, wrap, fabric, or sheet ("sheet") having a stiffener sewn or stitched ("stitched") into an edge, which allows positional securing without inhibiting visibility. Further, end caps provided at each end of the stiffener provides reinforced protection to avoid abrasion between the stiffener and a stitched pocket in which the stiffener is placed. When worn, a nursing cover covers a breastfeeding baby, a mother's exposed torso, while providing a window for the mother to observe or monitor the baby. A nursing cover, as described in greater detail below, may also protect a baby from other environment factors such as sun, wind, rain, and the like. In some examples, a nursing cover as described below may be used to shield a baby who is not nursing, but instead being carried in a sling or cradle such as a Baby Bjorn(R) or the like. In other words, a nursing cover as described in the various examples below, may be used to protect a mother and her child from various types of natural and manmade environmental factors and conditions. Various alternative implementations and modifications to the examples provided may be used and are not limited to the descriptions, dimensions, or other exemplary details provided herein.
DDDD:: FIG. 1 illustrates a front view of an exemplary nursing cover. Here, nursing cover 100 includes sheet 101, strap 102, D-ring strap 104, upper top edge stitch 106, lower top edge stitch 108, left edge stitch 110, right edge stitch 112, bottom edge stitch 114, and pocket stitches 116-120. Strap 102 further includes side stitches 122-124 and tapered edge 126. D-ring strap 104 also includes side stitches 128-130 and one or more D-rings 132. In some examples, D-ring strap 104 may be implemented with one or more D-rings 132, which are used to secure strap 102. Strap 102 may be secured by tying, slipping, knotting, or otherwise coupling, directly or indirectly, to D-ring strap 104. In other examples, D-ring strap 104 may be implemented with other types of securing rings or brackets, including O-rings, H-brackets, and the like. Nursing cover 100 also includes stiffener pocket 134 and pocket stitches 136-138. Pocket 134 may be used to hold a stiffener, which is described in greater detail below in connection with FIGS. 4A-4C.
DDDD:: Referring back to FIG. 1, a stiffener may be a length of material that, when placed within stiffener pocket 134, extends outward from the wearer of nursing cover 100. A stiffener may be a flexible, but semi-rigid strip or length of material that "bows outwards" from a top edge of sheet 101. When bowed, the stiffener holds the top edge of sheet 101 away from the wearer, thus providing an opening or aperture for maintaining visibility between the wearer and a baby underneath. Stiffeners may be made of natural or synthetic materials, including wood, plastic, nylon, metal, composite, or others. Further, a stiffener may be formed with a radius of curvature that allows a top edge of sheet 101 to extend away from the plane of sheet 101 when secured in a resting position. In other words, a stiffener may have a material memory that provides a curving shape that persists without requiring the exertion of force or pressure to achieve the curvature.
DDDD:: In some examples, sheet 101 may be implemented using any type of fabric made from natural or synthetic fibers, including cotton, wool, silk, denim, polyester, nylon, and various types of blends. Further, various types of designs may be placed on sheet 101 using any type of technique such as silk-screening, embroidery, or forming patterns or designs within the weave of the fabric. Other types of fabrics and designs may be used and nursing cover 100 is not limited to the examples provided. Regardless of the type of material used for sheet 101, nursing cover 100 may be placed to cover the upper torso of a nursing mother to provide an intimate and non-observable nursing experience for the baby and the mother. Further, a stiffener placed within stiffener pocket 134 and bounded by pocket stitches 136-138 may be used to provide a full or partially hemispherical support that projects outward from nursing cover 100 on a plane that is substantially orthogonal to vertical axis 140. In other words, if nursing cover 100 is worn in an upright position by a mother, a stiffener (not shown) in stiffener pocket 134 may extend a center portion of the top edge outwards and away from the mother. The mother's upper torso remains covered, a nursing baby is shielded from external view, and sheet 101 provides non-transparent protection from unwanted viewing while nursing. Nursing cover 100 may be implemented differently than described above and is not limited to the examples provided.
DDDD:: FIG. 2A illustrates a rear view of an exemplary nursing cover. Here, nursing cover 200 also includes sheet 101, strap 102, D-ring strap 104, upper top edge stitch 106, lower top edge stitch 108, left edge stitch 110, right edge stitch 112, bottom edge stitch 114, and pocket stitches 116-120. Strap 102 further includes side stitches 122-124 and tapered edge 126. D-ring strap 104 also includes side stitches 128-130 and one or more D-rings 132. Stiffener pocket 134 is also provided, being bounded by pocket stitches 136-138 and upper top edge stitch 106 and lower top edge stitch 108. A pocket may be provided by using pocket fabric 202, which may be stitched into a corner of sheet 101. Pocket fabric 202 may be stitched into place by right edge stitch 112 and bottom edge stitch 114. A diagonal edge of pocket fabric 202 extending from right edge stitch 112 to bottom edge stitch 114 may also be stitched, but with an unstitched portion left open between pocket stitch 116 and 120, thus creating a pocket for the wearer to retrieve and store items. Pocket stitches 116-120 provide edges for a pocket, which may be used to hold various items for a nursing mother, including a bottle, burp cloth, wipes, pacifier, baby clothing, nursing implements, and the like. Further, the placement of a pocket bounded by pocket stitches 116-120 using pocket fabric 202 on the rear or "inside" surface of nursing cover 200 allows a nursing mother to retrieve or store items such as those described above. In other embodiments, pocket fabric 202 may be implemented differently and is not limited to the example shown.
DDDD:: FIG. 2B illustrates a rear view of an alternative exemplary nursing cover. Here, nursing cover 210 is shown, also including sheet 101, strap 102, D-ring strap 104, upper top edge stitch 106, lower top edge stitch 108, left edge stitch 110, right edge stitch 112, bottom edge stitch 114, and pocket stitches 116-120. Strap 102 further includes side stitches 122-124 and tapered edge 126. D-ring strap 104 also includes side stitches 128130 and one or more D-rings 132. Stiffener pocket 134 is also provided, being bounded by pocket stitches 136-138 and upper top edge stitch 106 and lower top edge stitch 108. Alternatively, pocket fabric 212 and pocket stitches 214-218 are shown, which provide a different-type of pocket from that shown and described above in connection with FIG. 2A. In some examples, pocket fabric 212 may be formed using the same or a different type of material as sheet 101. For example, terry cloth material may be used for pocket fabric 212, which provides a soft material that minimize abrasion with exposed skin of a wearer (i.e., a nursing mother). In other examples, different types of materials may be used for pocket fabric 212 to form a pocket. Further, pocket fabric 212 may be located in a different area or on the outside of sheet 101. For example, pocket fabric 212 may be located in the inside of sheet 101, but on a different corner to accommodate left or right-handed mothers. Further, different sizes of pocket fabrics 212 may be stitched into sheet 101, providing smaller or larger sized pockets for holding items of various sizes. In some examples, pocket fabric 212 may be configured to provide a secure pocket, closed using a clasp or other item that allows the wearer to place items in a secure location while nursing.
DDDD:: Here, pocket 212 provides a pocket with an opening that is horizontally configured, lying in a plane that is orthogonal to vertical axis 140. Bounded by pocket stitches 214-218 and left open across the top edge of pocket fabric 212, a pocket is formed that allows the wearer to store and retrieve items such as those described above in connection with FIG. 2A. In other examples, different types of pockets may be implemented and are not limited to the examples shown and described. Numerous other shapes, sizes, fabric types, and locations may be used with pocket fabric 212 and nursing cover 210 is not limited to the pocket examples shown and provided above. Further, nursing cover 210 and the elements described may be varied and are not limited to the examples provided above.
DDDD:: FIG. 3 illustrates an alternative frontal view of an exemplary nursing cover when worn. Here, nursing cover 300 is shown, including sheet 101, strap 102, D-ring strap 104, upper top edge stitch 106, lower top edge stitch 108, left edge stitch 110, right edge stitch 112, bottom edge stitch 114, and pocket stitches 116-120. Strap 102 further includes side stitches 122-124 and tapered edge 126. D-ring strap 104 also includes side stitches 128-130 and one or more D-rings 132. Stiffener pocket 134 is also provided, being bounded by pocket stitches 136-138 and upper top edge stitch 106 and lower top edge stitch 108. In some examples, strap 102 may be secured to D-ring strap 104 using a knot or by running strap 102 between D-rings 132, as shown with strap section 302. In some examples, strap 102 may be threaded through D-rings 132, which are secured and taut when tension is applied to either tapered edge 126 or strap 102. Strap 102 may be adjusted in length using D-rings 132 to accommodate a wearer with broad or narrow shoulders, a thick or thin neck, or to compensate for a desired area of coverage provided by nursing cover 300. In other examples, nursing cover 300 may be secured differently and is not limited to the examples shown and described.
DDDD:: When worn, nursing cover 300 provides shade and protection from unwanted observers for a nursing mother and her child. Strap 102, when secured to D-ring strap 104 using D-rings 132, falls or drapes over a nursing child underneath. A stiffener in stiffener pocket 134 extends nursing cover 300 away from the neck and upper torso of the mother and provides a pocket in which the baby rests and remains visible to the mother. Further, a mother may also wear nursing cover 300 as a sunshade to protect a baby underneath, who may be carried in the mother's arms while nursing, cradled in a sling (e.g., Baby Bjorn(R)), or otherwise held in a position that may warrant protection from observation, sun, weather, wind, or other environmental factors that may affect the baby.
DDDD:: FIG. 4A illustrates an exemplary stiffener. Here, stiffener 402 is shown with edges 404-406. In some examples, stiffener 402 may be formed using natural materials such as wood, bamboo, and others. In other examples, stiffener 402 may be formed using synthetic materials such as plastic, nylon, steel, metal, composites (e.g., Teflon(R), Kevlar(R), and others). Materials used for stiffener 402 may be durable, light, waterproof or water-resistant, and formed to prevent moisture accumulation or mildew when placed within stiffener pocket 134 (FIGS. 1, 2A-2B, 3). Stiffener 402 may be formed from any material that, when placed within pocket 134, provides a bent or semi-hemispherical shape that is used to bow the upper edge of nursing cover 100 (FIGS. 1, 2A-2B, 3) outward from the wearer. In some examples the degree of bend (i.e., radius of curvature) may be adjusted or customized for different wearers, depending upon the amount of visibility desired. In other words, if a larger area of visibility is desired, stiffener 402 may be formed using a greater length and radius of curvature. When formed, stiffener 402 retains a bent or curved shape when in a resting position. Further, when force is applied to bend or curve stiffener 402 in the opposite direction of a formed curve, stiffener 402 may be formed of materials that allow bending without breaking. Here, edges 404-406 may expose individual fibers or strands of material within stiffener 402. When placed in contact with sheet 101 (i.e., when placed within pocket 134), edges 404-406 may abrade against the fabric of sheet 101, resulting in tears or cuts in sheet 101, as well as causing stiffener 402 to slip out of place. By placing end caps (as described below in greater detail in connection with FIGS. 4B-4C) on stiffener 402, abrasion and cutting may be prevented or minimized, resulting in the continuing ability of nursing cover 100 to bend outward along its upper edge away from the wearer. In other examples, stiffener 402 may be formed of different materials with different properties and material characteristics other than those described above.
DDDD:: FIG. 4B illustrates an exemplary end cap. Here, end cap 412 is shown with opening 414 and port 416. In some examples, stiffener 402 (FIG. 4A) may be placed into opening 414 and inserted until contact is made with the inside surface of the opposing side of end cap 412. End cap 412 may be positioned over edges 404-406, providing a non-abrading, substantially smooth surface that, when placed within pocket 134 (FIG. 1) of nursing cover 100, prevents tears or cuts in sheet 101. Further, end cap 412 may be used to also prevent edges 404-406 from tearing or cutting through pocket 134 and pressing into exposed skin surfaces of the wearer, which may cause pain, injury, or both. Further, end cap 412 may also provide protection to a baby protected underneath by preventing rough edges of stiffener 402 from pressing into the skin, eyes, or extremities of a child. Port 416 provides a window or aperture for viewing within end cap 412. Port 416 may be used to determine whether stiffener 402 has been fully or partially inserted into end cap 412. In some examples, port 416 may also be used to relieve overpressure within end cap 412 if the outer edges of stiffener 402 provide a seal by contacting the inner surfaces of opening 414. In some examples, the shape of end cap 412 is formed to provide smooth, rounded surfaces to prevent abrading, tearing, or cutting into sheet 101. In other examples, different shapes and sizes may be used for end cap 412 and are not limited to the examples shown above. For example, a rounded or hemispherical shape may be used for end cap 412. In other examples, a square or substantially rectangular shape may be used for end cap 412, providing a secure and substantially smooth surface that does not catch, abrade, tear, or cut the inner lining or surface of pocket 134. End cap 412 may be implemented differently in design, shape, and dimension. Other examples may be used and are not limited to the examples shown and described.
DDDD:: FIG. 4C illustrates an exemplary stiffener and end cap. Here, a cross sectional area of stiffener 402 is shown and end cap 412 is placed over edges 404. In some examples, end cap 412 may be placed over edges 404 to protect fabric (i.e., sheet 101 (FIG. 1)) from abrasion, tears, or cuts that may be caused by the rough surfaces of stiffener 402 and edges 404. Edges 404 may be created when stiffener 402 is cut from an overall longer length of material. Here, stiffener 402 may be inserted into end cap 412 and fully positioned when edges 404 are seen within port 416. In some examples, edges 404 may be fully inserted into end cap 412, which provides a smooth end surface that does not abrade, cut, or tear the fabric of sheet 101 and pocket 134. In other examples, edges 404 may be partially inserted into end cap 412 and the extent of insertion may be controlled by viewing how far stiffener 402 has advanced into end cap 412 using port 416. In other examples, end cap 412 may be formed as part of stiffener 402, thus omitting edges 404 and providing a smooth, integrated surface that prevents abrasion, tearing, or cutting of sheet 101. In still other examples, end cap 412 may be inserted over or onto stiffener 402 differently and is not limited to the examples shown and described.
DDDD:: In some examples, end cap 412 and stiffener 402 may be formed, connected, glued, sewn, stitched, or otherwise coupled (i.e., directly or indirectly) together. For example, end cap 412 and stiffener 402 may be sewn together by using thread, string, or other synthetic or natural fibers to secure end cap 412 to stiffener 402. Synthetic or natural fibers (not shown) may be threaded through port 416 on a side of end cap 412, through the material of stiffener 402, and out through another port located on an opposing side of end cap 412. Synthetic, natural, or other connective materials used to couple end cap 412 to stiffener 402, may be comprised of any type of synthetic or natural material to provide a memory shape such as that described above. As another example, end cap 412 may be coupled to stiffener 402, but melted together by applying heat, solvents, or other materials that may result in the fusion, materially or molecularly, of end cap 412 with stiffener 402. Likewise, various types of glues and adhesive materials may also be applied to couple end cap 412 to stiffener 402. Further, stiffener 402 may be formed with end cap 412 disposed at both ends. In other words, end cap 412 may be formed as part of stiffener 402 using the same or different material. As yet another example, different a connector may be used to couple end cap 412 to stiffener 402.
DDDD:: In some examples, a connector may be a "plug," "bar," or rail comprised of any type of natural or synthetic fiber that may be pressed through end cap 412 and stiffener 402 to secure both end cap 412 and stiffener 402 together. A connector may also be any type of intermediary material used to mechanically or structurally couple end cap 412 to stiffener 402. Stiffener 402 and end caps 412 may be formed as a single, monolithic piece or by using multiple, different pieces coupled using techniques such as those described above. Further, any type of technique for coupling stiffener 402 and end caps 412 may be used and are not limited to the examples provided above. Other types and techniques for securing end cap 412 to stiffener 402 may be used and are not limited to the above-described examples.
DDDD:: FIG. 5A illustrates an alternative frontal view of an exemplary nursing cover when worn. Here, nursing cover 500 is shown, including sheet 101, strap 102, D-ring strap 104, upper top edge stitch 106, lower top edge stitch 108, left edge stitch 110, right edge stitch 112, bottom edge stitch 114, and pocket stitches 116-120. Strap 102 further includes side stitches 122-124 and tapered edge 126. D-ring strap 104 also includes side stitches 128-130 and one or more D-rings 132. Stiffener pocket 134 is also provided, being bounded by pocket stitches 136-138, upper top edge stitch 106 and lower top edge stitch 108. Stiffener pocket 134 may further include stiffener stitches 502-504, which may be provided to couple a stiffener (e.g., stiffener 402 (FIGS. 4A-4C) to sheet 101. In some examples, stiffener stitches 502-504 may be implemented using various lengths, thicknesses, diameters, or materials, without limitation. In other examples, stiffener stitches 502-504 may fully or partially span the width or length of stiffener 402. In still other examples, stiffener stitches 502-504 may be provided vertically, horizontally, off-angled, or otherwise. When worn, nursing cover 500 provides shade and protection from unwanted observers for a nursing mother and her child. Stiffener 402 in stiffener pocket 134 extends nursing cover 500 away from the neck and upper torso of the mother and provides a pocket in which the baby rests and remains visible to the mother.
DDDD:: In some examples, stiffener 402 and sheet 101 may be connected, glued, sewn, stitched, or otherwise coupled (i.e., directly or indirectly) together to prevent movement of stiffener 402 in stiffener pocket 134. In some examples, stiffener stitches 502-504 may be stitched, sewn into, or otherwise coupled (i.e., directly or indirectly) to sheet 101 and may be used to secure stiffener 402 in stiffener pocket 134 to sheet 101 or prevent lateral or rotational movement of stiffener 402 within stiffener pocket 134. In other examples, stiffener stitches 502-504 may be configured differently and are not limited to the descriptions provided.
DDDD:: As shown here, stiffener stitches 502-504 may be located between pocket stitches 136-138 and may be stitched or sewn substantially parallel to vertical axis 140. In other examples, stiffener stitches 502-504 may be located anywhere along stiffener pocket 134 and may be stitched in any angle relative to vertical axis 140 and are not limited to the location and configuration as shown and described. In some examples, stiffener stitches 502-504 may be stitched or sewn through sheet 101 and through the material of stiffener 402 using any synthetic, natural, or other connective materials. For example, stiffener stitches 502-504 may comprise thread, string, or other synthetic or natural fibers. In other examples, stiffener stitches 502-504 may comprise other materials and are not limited to the examples provided above.
DDDD:: In some examples, various types of glues and adhesive materials may also be applied to secure stiffener 402 to sheet 101. Other types and techniques for securing stiffener 402 to sheet 101 may be used and are not limited to the above-described examples.
DDDD:: FIG. 5B illustrates an alternative frontal view of an exemplary nursing cover when worn. Here, nursing cover 500 is shown, including sheet 101, strap 102, D-ring strap 104, upper top edge stitch 106, lower top edge stitch 108, left edge stitch 110, right edge stitch 112, bottom edge stitch 114, and pocket stitches 116-120. Strap 102 further includes side stitches 122-124 and tapered edge 126. D-ring strap 104 also includes side stitches 128-130 and one or more D-rings 132. Stiffener pocket 134 is also provided, being bounded by pocket stitches 136-138, upper top edge stitch 106 and lower top edge stitch 108. Stiffener pocket 134 may further include stiffener stitches 506-508, which may be provided to couple a stiffener (e.g., stiffener 402 (FIGS. 4A-4C) to sheet 101. In some examples, stiffener stitches 506-508 may be implemented using various lengths, thicknesses, diameters, or materials, without limitation. In other examples, stiffener stitches 506-508 may fully or partially span the width or length of stiffener 402. In still other examples, stiffener stitches 506-508 may be provided vertically, horizontally, off-angled, or otherwise. When worn, nursing cover 500 provides shade and protection from unwanted observers for a nursing mother and her child. Stiffener 402 in stiffener pocket 134 extends nursing cover 500 away from the neck and upper torso of the mother and provides a pocket in which the baby rests and remains visible to the mother.
DDDD:: In some examples, stiffener 402 and sheet 101 may be connected, glued, sewn, stitched, or otherwise coupled (i.e., directly or indirectly) together to prevent movement of stiffener 402 in stiffener pocket 134. In some examples, stiffener stitches 506-508 may be stitched or sewn into sheet 101 and may be used to secure stiffener 402 in stiffener pocket 134 to sheet 101 or prevent lateral or rotational movement of stiffener 402 within stiffener pocket 134. In other examples, stiffener stitches 506-508 may be configured differently and are not limited to the descriptions provided.
DDDD:: As shown here, stiffener stitches 506-508 may be located between pocket stitches 136-138 and may be stitched or sewn substantially perpendicular to vertical axis 140. In other examples, stiffener stitches 506-508 may be located anywhere along stiffener pocket 134 and may be stitched in any angle relative to vertical axis 140 and are not limited to the sizes, locations, placements, or configurations as shown and described. In some examples, stiffener stitches 506-508 may be stitched or sewn through sheet 101 and through the material of stiffener 402 using any synthetic, natural, or other connective materials. For example, stiffener stitches 506-508 may comprise thread, string, or other synthetic or natural fibers. In other examples, stiffener stitches 506-508 may comprise other materials and are not limited to the examples provided above.
DDDD:: In some examples, various types of glues and adhesive materials may also be applied to secure stiffener 402 to sheet 101. Other types and techniques for securing stiffener 402 to sheet 101 may be used and are not limited to the above-described examples.
DDDD:: Although the foregoing examples have been described in detail for purposes of clarity of understanding, certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Accordingly, the present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and not limited to the details given herein and may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims. In the claims, elements and/or steps do not imply any particular order of operation, unless explicitly stated in the claims.
CLI :: 1. A nursing cover comprising: a cover including a top edge, the cover designed to provide coverage to a baby and a wearer; and a stiffener formed of a composite plastic shape memory material, the stiffener coupled to the top edge of the cover, including a securing mechanism preventing the stiffener from rotating, the stiffener having a predetermined state bowing outward to provide a viewing area when worn, wherein the stiffener maintains the pre-determined shape to form the viewing area enabling the wearer to view the baby while maintaining privacy, the stiffener assuming the pre-determined shape during a resting state, and when a force is applied to the stiffener the composite plastic shape memory material enabling the stiffener to temporarily deform without breaking, and reassume the pre-determined shape when the force is removed.
CLD :: 2. The nursing cover of claim 1, wherein the stiffener is disposed within a pocket along the top edge of the cover, and the securing mechanism preventing the stiffener from rotating within the pocket.
CLD :: 3. The nursing cover of claim 1, further comprising a smooth outer surface for an end of the stiffener, to reduce abrasion.
CLD :: 4. The nursing cover of claim 3, wherein the smooth outer surface comprises an end cap.
CLD :: 5. The nursing cover of claim 4, wherein the end cap is one of: formed as part of the stiffener, glued onto the stiffener end, sewn onto the stiffener end, stitched onto the stiffener end, connected by a bar to the stiffener end, melted onto the stiffener end, and coupled using a solvent which causes the stiffener or the end cap to become adhesive.
CLD :: 6. The nursing cover of claim 1, wherein the stiffener material is one or more of: mildew resistant, water resistant, and waterproof.
CLD :: 7. The nursing cover of claim 1, wherein the securing mechanism is at least one of a stitch, a staple, and an adhesive.
CLI :: 8. A nursing cover, comprising: a cover having a top edge; a stiffener comprised of a composite plastic shape memory material, the stiffener coupled to the cover using a securing mechanism to prevent the stiffener from rotating; the composite plastic shape memory material formed at manufacture with a pre-determined shape, the composite plastic shape memory material allowing the stiffener to temporarily deform without breaking the stiffener when force is applied to the stiffener, and to reassume the pre-determined shape when the force is removed, the pre-determined shape providing a viewing area enabling a wearer of the nursing cover to see under the cover while maintaining privacy; and an end of the stiffener provides a substantially smooth surface to prevent abrasion.
CLD :: 9. The nursing cover of claim 8, further comprising: a pocket along the top edge of the cover, the stiffener disposed within the pocket, the securing mechanism to prevent the stiffener from rotating within the pocket.
CLD :: 10. The nursing cover of claim 8, the smooth outer surface comprising an end cap.
CLD :: 11. The nursing cover of claim 10, wherein the end cap is one of: formed as part of the stiffener, glued onto the stiffener end, sewn onto the stiffener end, stitched onto the stiffener end, connected by a bar to the stiffener end, melted onto the stiffener end, and coupled using a solvent which causes the stiffener or the end cap to become adhesive.
CLD :: 12. The nursing cover of claim 8, wherein the stiffener material is one or more of: mildew resistant, water resistant, and waterproof.
CLD :: 13. The nursing cover of claim 8, the securing mechanism is at least one of a stitch, a staple, and an adhesive.
CLI :: 14. A nursing cover, comprising: a cover including a stiffener pocket; a stiffener in the stiffener pocket, the stiffener coupled to the cover using a securing mechanism to prevent the stiffener from rotating within the stiffener pocket, wherein the stiffener is comprised of a composite plastic shape memory material, the stiffener having a predetermined shape, the composite plastic shape memory material enabling the stiffener to temporarily deform without breaking the stiffener when force is applied to the stiffener, and to reassume the pre-determined shape when the force is removed; and an end of the stiffener provides a substantially smooth surface to prevent abrasion.
CLD :: 15. The nursing cover of claim 14, the smooth outer surface comprises an end cap.
CLD :: 16. The nursing cover of claim 15, wherein the end cap is one of: formed as part of the stiffener, glued onto the stiffener end, sewn onto the stiffener end, stitched onto the stiffener end, connected by a bar to the stiffener end, melted onto the stiffener end, and coupled using a solvent which causes the stiffener or the end cap to become adhesive.
CLD :: 17. The nursing cover of claim 14, the securing mechanism is at least one of a stitch, a staple, and an adhesive.
CLD :: 18. The nursing cover of claim 14, wherein the stiffener material is one or more of: mildew resistant, water resistant, and waterproof.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Reusable abbreviated mitten device
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661566
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 13076559
APDT:: 20110331
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 1069
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 0
INVS:: GARCIA CARLOS M.
APLS:: GARCIA CARLOS M.
LREP:: 
ASSE:: 
EXMR:: HOEY ALISSA L
NCLS:: 1
NCLI:: 1
NCLD:: 0
NFIG:: 6
DSCL:: 1717
SUML:: 910
BKGL:: 175
DDRL:: 908
DDSL:: 0
CLFL:: 185
CLIL:: 186
CLDL:: 0
NREF:: 38
NRFA:: 3
NRFX:: 35
IPCC:: A-A-41-D-19-01-F-I
USCC::   2158|| 38 95|  2 20|401  7|  2 21|  2 20|  2 20|  2 20|D22149|  2171|  21616|  21616|294 25|224666|D29119| 1510494|224555|  2 21|  21616|  21616|D29118|221197|  2 16|  2 16|  2 16|D29113| D7368|  21616|D29119|221197|  21616|  2 16|  2158|  2158|  2 20|  2158|  2 16||  2 20||  2 21||  2158||  2159||  2160||  21611||  21616||  21617||  21618||  2163||  2168|| D2610|| D2611|| D2612|
SFLD::   2 16|  2 20|  2 21|  2158|  2159|  2160|  21611|  21616|  21617|  21618|  2163|  2168| D2610| D2611| D2612
RLDX:: 
NRLD:: 0
NPRV:: 0
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: The reusable abbreviated mitten system provides a rubberized mitten having an abbreviated mitten length such that the mitten reaches only to the base of the thumb of a user, a finger portion, a hand reinforcement cuff, a symmetrical thumb portion, an obround case having an open top, a closed bottom, and an inverted L clip disposed on one side of the case. The mitten provides for quick donning and doffing while saving considerably on materials and production costs to not only provide easy, quick, reusable use, but also to contribute to environmentalism and natural resource savings. The mitten is formed of elastic rubber and alternately non-elastic rubber.
DHXX:: CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
DDXX:: Not Applicable
DHXX:: FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT
DDXX:: Not Applicable
DHXX:: INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF MATERIAL SUBMITTED ON A COMPACT DISK
DDXX:: Not Applicable
DHBK:: BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
DDBK:: A plethora of rubberized type gloves exist, with many being reusable. Most such reusable gloves, which may also include mittens, are full gloves and mittens whereby the devices fully cover hands and often wrists. In glove design, mittens are inherently beneficial regarding natural resources and material expenditures, as the surface area needed to cover a hand is reduced. Still, natural resources and production of full hand coverage may be wasteful. An abbreviated glove, which only essentially covers the fingers and thumb, and a part of the hand may therefore provide a significant reduction in waste as a contribution toward a global green effort. The present device provides this advantage, along with other advantages described herein.
DHBK:: FIELD OF THE INVENTION
DDBK:: The reusable abbreviated mitten device relates to reusable gloves and more especially to an abbreviated reusable mitten.
DHSM:: SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
DDSM:: The general purpose of the reusable abbreviated mitten device, described subsequently in greater detail, is to provide a reusable abbreviated mitten device which has many novel features that result in an improved reusable abbreviated mitten device which is not anticipated, rendered obvious, suggested, or even implied by prior art, either alone or in combination thereof.
DDSM:: To attain this, the reusable abbreviated mitten device offers protection for a user's fingers, thumb, and across a user's hand at the base of the thumb. The device also provides an obround carry case with clip so that the mitten can be carried on various objects, such as an interior car door or the like wherein pocket edges and such are typically available. The carry case importantly has a case depth less than that of the mitten so that the mitten is easily obtained without typical mitten and glove encasement problems known to frequent users of such items. The obround case shape is important for easy accessibility of the mitten.
DDSM:: The mitten is importantly abbreviated for temporary, reusable use, without the full hand or hand and wrist coverage. This important feature accomplishes more than one goal. First, the mitten is easily donned and doffed, important for rapid, easy use. And, the savings in materials and production costs are significant. Cost savings provides for extremely low final sales price. Cost savings also makes a significant and favorable effort toward environmentalism, a very important feature of the device. Considering the number of reusable rubberized gloves in use daily across the globe, some for only seconds, for example, this is no small concern.
DDSM:: Another important feature of the mitten is the hand reinforcement. Many reusable gloves, for example, are torn during application due to lack of integrity when a user pulls at the glove in attempt to don. The hand reinforcement negates destruction of the mitten in donning and also provides sufficient integrity to guard against mitten malformation that might otherwise be experienced during the same donning procedure, such possible malformation being unfavorable to mitten use. Thus, the present mitten may be used several times prior to disposal.
DDSM:: An additional important feature is the design of the thumb portion. The symmetrical and relatively wide entry width of the thumb portion provides for easy donning of the mitten as well as omnidirectional use, availing either of a user's hands to the same mitten. Also, the symmetrical thumb portion narrows to an end width so that relatively effective thumb retention is possible, enabling reasonable mitten retention during right hand and alternate left hand use.
DDSM:: The mitten is provided as a right-hand mitten and alternately, as a left-hand mitten, in sizes from small to extra large and are also provided in rubberized material in an elastic form and in a non-elastic form. Mitten length dimensions are critical.
DDSM:: Thus has been broadly outlined the more important features of the improved reusable abbreviated mitten device so that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated.
DDSM:: An object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to provide a reusable protection abbreviated glove.
DDSM:: An object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to be extremely conscious of waste of resources.
DDSM:: Another object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to be especially useful for use in fuel tank filling.
DDSM:: A further object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to provide easy glove application.
DDSM:: An added object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to provide easy glove removal.
DDSM:: And, an object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to ensure against excessive expansion at the hand reinforcement location.
DDSM:: A further object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to provide for either hand usage.
DDSM:: Yet another object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to provide for easy thumb entry for right hand use and alternately for left hand use.
DDSM:: Still another object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to provide for easy thumb removal.
DDSM:: And, an object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to provide readily accessible storage for the mitten.
DDSM:: Another object of the reusable abbreviated mitten device is to provide user choice in elasticity.
DDSM:: These together with additional objects, features and advantages of the improved reusable abbreviated mitten device will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the following detailed description of presently preferred, but nonetheless illustrative, embodiments of the improved reusable abbreviated mitten device when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is a perspective view.
DDDR:: FIG. 2 is a plan view.
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is a plan view of a pair of the devices, applied.
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is a perspective view of the case.
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is a perspective in-use view.
DDDR:: FIG. 6 is a perspective view of the device clipped to an existing interior car door.
DHDR:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: With reference now to the drawings, and in particular FIGS. 1 through 6 thereof, the principles and concepts of the reusable abbreviated mitten device generally designated by the reference number 10 will be described.
DDDR:: The abbreviated mitten 20 has a mitten length 21. The mitten length 21 is dependent upon mitten 20 sizing selected from a list consisting of sizes dependent upon small, medium, large, and extra large. The small size mitten length 21 is 41/2 inches. The medium size mitten length 21 is 51/4 inches. The large size mitten length 21 is 61/4 inches. The extra large size mitten length 21 is 7 inches. The mitten lengths 21 are important in that the finger and thumb of a user's hand, along with the portion of the hand that reaches across the hand at the base of the thumb are all protected, yet the waste of materials and manufacturing are negated relative to producing, for example, a device 10 that exceeded these lengths. The mitten 20 is rubberized. The term "rubberized" as used herein includes materials that are coated or impregnated with rubber as well as materials that contain natural or synthetic rubber therein.
DDDR:: Referring to FIG. 3, the mitten 20 further comprises a finger portion 22. The finger portion 22 is oriented for right hand use and alternately for left hand use.
DDDR:: The mitten 20 further comprises a hand reinforcement cuff 24 having a width 24A of about 1/2 inch. The mitten 20 further comprises the symmetrical thumb portion 26. The finger portion 22 includes a smooth semi-obround top surface 23, a smooth semi-obround bottom surface 25, and a continuous side surface 29 conjoining the top surface 23 and the bottom surface 25. The thumb portion 26 includes an entry side 35 and a continuous side wall 36. The side wall 36 includes a pair of substantially wedge-shaped bottom portions 39 attached to the bottom surface 25 and a central strip portion 40 affixed between the bottom portions 39. The wedge-shaped bottom portions 39 and the central strip portion 40 of the side wall 36 permit the thumb portion 26 to interchangeably accommodate the thumb on either the user's right hand or left hand.
DDDR:: Referring again to FIG. 1, the thumb portion 26 importantly has an entry width 27 of about 2 inches. This entry width 27 enables ease of entry of the thumb of either hand of a user. Also important is the thumb portion 26 end width 28 of about 1 inch. This end width 28 enables reasonable retention of a user's thumb while still permitting chosen escape from the mitten 20.
DDDR:: Referring to FIG. 4, the device 10 further comprises the obround case 30 having an open top 32 and a closed bottom 33. The inverted L clip 34 is disposed on one side of the case 30. The case 30 further comprises a case depth 31 of about 4 inches. The case depth 31 of about 4 inches is important in that any size of the mitten 20 may be removably retained and yet remain extremely accessible to a user. The obround shape makes a further important statement to mitten 20 availability.
DDDR:: Referring to FIG. 5, the mitten 20 is used to grasp an existing gas pump handle 12 while negating any contamination of a user's hand.
DDDR:: Referring to FIG. 6, the obround case 30 is removably attached within an existing interior car door 14. The availability of mitten 20 from the case 30 is illustrated.
DDDR:: Directional terms such as front, back, in, out, and the like may have been used in the description. These terms are applicable to the embodiments shown and described in conjunction with the drawings. These terms are merely used for the purpose of description in connection with the drawings and do not necessarily apply to the position in which the reusable abbreviated mitten device may be used.
CLI :: 1. A reusable abbreviated mitten system consisting of: a rubberized, elastic mitten having a mitten length, the length selected from a group consisting of 41/2 inches, 51/4 inches, 61/4 inches, and 7 inches, the mitten further comprising: a finger portion comprising a smooth semi-obround top surface, a smooth semi-obround bottom surface, and a continuous side surface conjoining the top surface and the bottom surface; a hand reinforcement cuff having a width of about 1/2 inch; a symmetrical thumb portion, the thumb portion comprising an entry side and a continuous side wall, the side wall comprising a pair of substantially wedge-shaped bottom portions attached to the bottom surface and a rectangular central portion disposed between the bottom portions, the thumb portion having an entry width of about 2 inches and an end width of about 1 inch; an obround case having an open top, a closed bottom and a case depth of about 4 inches; an inverted L clip disposed on a one side of the case; wherein the finger portion is configured to accommodate the fingers of a right hand and alternately of a left hand.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Sweat management system
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661567
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 12807731
APDT:: 20100913
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 1268
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 1797
INVS:: HOOVER MICHELE M.|HOOVER JOSEPH BROOKE
APLS:: HOOVER MICHELE M.|HOOVER JOSEPH BROOKE
LREP:: 
ASSE:: 
EXMR:: PATEL TEJASH
NCLS:: 3
NCLI:: 3
NCLD:: 0
NFIG:: 16
DSCL:: 3460
SUML:: 1472
BKGL:: 77
DDRL:: 2377
DDSL:: 0
CLFL:: 258
CLIL:: 259
CLDL:: 565
NREF:: 5
NRFA:: 0
NRFX:: 5
IPCC:: A-A-41-D-20-00-F-I
USCC::   2170||602 63|  2170|  2181|  2 16|  2170|602 20- 23|602 62||602 63||  2 16||  2170||  2171||  2162||  2918||  2DIG 11|
SFLD:: 602 20- 23|602 62|602 63|  2 16|  2170|  2171|  2162|  2918|  2DIG 11
RLDX:: CIP:12384226:20090402:12807731
NRLD:: 1
NPRV:: 0
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: An interior layer has inner and outer surfaces. The interior layer is fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material. An exterior layer is positioned overlying the interior layer. The exterior layer has inner and outer surfaces. The exterior layer is fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material. A chamber is formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer. An intermediate layer is provided within the chamber in pressure contact with the interior layer. The intermediate layer is fabricated of a sweat-trapping and containing material.
DHXX:: RELATED APPLICATION
DDXX:: The present application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12/384,226 filed Apr. 2, 2009 now abandoned, the subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
DHBK:: FIELD OF THE INVENTION
DDBK:: The present invention relates to a sweat management system and more particularly pertains to conducting sweat away from a user wearing the system and for trapping and containing such conducted sweat, the conducting and trapping and containing being achieved in a safe, convenient and economical manner.
DHSM:: SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
DDSM:: In view of the disadvantages inherent in the known types of sweat management systems of known designs and configurations now present in the prior art, the present invention provides an improved sweat management system. As such, the general purpose of the present invention, which will be described subsequently in greater detail, is to provide a new and improved sweat management system and method which has all the advantages of the prior art and none of the disadvantages.
DDSM:: To attain this, the present invention essentially comprises a sweat management system. First provided is an interior layer. The interior layer has an inner surface. The inner surface is positionable in pressure-exerting contact with the wrist of the user, such as a tennis player. The interior layer has an outer surface. The outer surface is positionable out of contact with the wrist of the user, such as a tennis player. The interior layer is fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material. The sweat transferring material includes about 80 percent polyester, about 10 percent nylon, and about 10 percent rubber. The interior layer is adapted to attract sweat away from the wrist of the user at a location adjacent to the inner surface of the interior layer. The interior layer is further adapted to conduct attracted sweat to a location adjacent to the outer surface of the interior layer.
DDSM:: An exterior layer is provided. The exterior layer is positioned overlying the interior layer. The exterior layer has an inner surface. The inner surface is adjacent to and faces toward the interior layer. The exterior layer has an outer surface. The outer surface faces away from the interior layer and is exposed to the atmosphere. The exterior layer is fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material. The sweat transferring material includes about 80 percent polyester, about 10 percent nylon, and about 10 percent rubber. The term "about" used to identify the percentage of components in the layers is intended to mean the identified percentage plus or minus 10 percent of the identified amount. The exterior layer is adapted to transmit to the intermediate layer sweat generated by a user at locations other than locations contacted by the interior layer.
DDSM:: Provided next is a cylindrical chamber. The cylindrical chamber is formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer. The cylindrical chamber has an axial length and a circumference. The circumference is about the same length as the axial length.
DDSM:: Further provided is an intermediate layer. The intermediate layer is provided within the chamber. The intermediate layer has an inner surface. The inner surface is positioned in pressure contact with the interior layer. The intermediate layer has an outer surface. The outer surface is in contact with the exterior layer. The intermediate layer is fabricated of a sweat-trapping and containing material. The material includes 100 percent non-woven cellulose, preferably viscose rayon, a synthetic shammy material. The intermediate layer is adapted to receive sweat from the interior layer. The intermediate layer is adapted to trap and contain several times its weight in sweat. In this manner when a wearing the system generates sweat at the inner surface of the interior layer, the generated sweat will be trapped and contained in the intermediate layer. The intermediate layer has the capability to trap and contain up to 12 times its weight in sweat. In this manner the system is significantly more effective than known sweat management devices in keeping dry the wrist or other body part of the user. The intermediate layer is formed of two similar panels with stitching coupling the axial ends of each panel to the interior and exterior layers. Axial spacings between the panels with the spacings constituting between 5 and 15 percent of the circumference of the system. Such spacings allow for stretching of the system to facilitate putting on and taking off.
DDSM:: The interior layer and the exterior layer are fabricated of a single piece of fabric. The fabric is configured into a generally flat, torus-shaped common piece of fabric. The fabric has free ends. The free ends have stitching. The stitching joins the free ends. In this manner the chamber is formed in a generally cylindrical configuration. Also in this manner the intermediate layer is in a generally cylindrical configuration corresponding to the size and shape of the chamber.
DDSM:: There has thus been outlined, rather broadly, the more important features of the invention in order that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are, of course, additional features of the invention that will be described hereinafter and which will form the subject matter of the claims attached.
DDSM:: In this respect, before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein are for the purpose of descriptions and should not be regarded as limiting.
DDSM:: As such, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception, upon which this disclosure is based, may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other structures, methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present invention. It is important, therefore, that the claims be regarded as including such equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present invention.
DDSM:: It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved sweat management system which has all of the advantages of the prior art sweat management systems of known designs and configurations and none of the disadvantages.
DDSM:: It is another object of the present invention to provide a new and improved sweat management system which may be easily and efficiently manufactured and marketed.
DDSM:: It is further object of the present invention to provide a new and improved sweat management system which is of durable and reliable constructions.
DDSM:: An even further object of the present invention is to provide a new and improved sweat management system which is susceptible of a low cost of manufacture with regard to both materials and labor, and which accordingly is then susceptible of low prices of sale to the consuming public, thereby making such sweat management system economically available to the buying public.
DDSM:: Even still another object of the present invention is to provide a sweat management system for conducting sweat away from a user wearing the system and for trapping and containing such conducted sweat, the conducting and trapping and containing being achieved in a safe, convenient and economical manner.
DDSM:: Lastly, it is an object of the present invention to provide a new and improved sweat management system. An interior layer has inner and outer surfaces. The interior layer is fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material. An exterior layer is positioned overlying the interior layer. The exterior layer has inner and outer surfaces. The exterior layer is fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material. A chamber is formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer. An intermediate layer is provided within the chamber in pressure contact with the interior layer. The intermediate layer is fabricated of a sweat-trapping and containing material.
DDSM:: These together with other objects of the invention, along with the various features of novelty which characterize the invention, are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed to and forming a part of this disclosure. For a better understanding of the invention, its operating advantages and the specific objects attained by its uses, reference should be had to the accompanying drawings and descriptive matter in which there is illustrated preferred embodiments of the invention.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: The invention will be better understood and objects other than those set forth above will become apparent when consideration is given to the following detailed description thereof. Such description makes reference to the annexed drawings wherein:
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is a perspective illustration of a sweat management system constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 2 is a cross sectional view taken along line 2-2 of FIG. 1.
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is a cross sectional view taken along line 3-3 of FIG. 2.
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is a perspective illustration of an alternate embodiment of the invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is a cross sectional view taken along line 5-5 of FIG. 4.
DDDR:: FIG. 6 is a perspective illustration of another alternate embodiment of the invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 7 is a side elevational view of the next alternate embodiment of the invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 8 is a bottom view of the next embodiment taken along line 8-8 of FIG. 7.
DDDR:: FIG. 9 is a cross sectional view taken along line 9-9 of FIG. 8.
DDDR:: FIG. 10 is a side view of an additional alternate embodiment of the invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 11 is a cross sectional view taken along line 11-11 of FIG. 10.
DDDR:: FIG. 12 is a front elevational view of yet another embodiment of the present invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 13 is a cross sectional view taken along line 13-13 of FIG. 12.
DDDR:: FIG. 14 is a front elevational view a final alternate embodiment of the present invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 15 is a side elevational view taken along line 15-15 of FIG. 14.
DDDR:: FIG. 16 is a cross sectional view taken along line 16-16 of FIG. 15.
DDDR:: The same reference numerals refer to the same parts throughout the various Figures.
DHDR:: DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
DDDR:: With reference now to the drawings, and in particular to FIG. 1 thereof, the preferred embodiment of the new and improved sweat management system embodying the principles and concepts of the present invention and generally designated by the reference numeral 10 will be described.
DDDR:: The present invention, the sweat management system 10 is comprised of a plurality of components. Such components in their broadest context include an interior layer, an exterior layer, a chamber and an intermediate layer. Such components are individually configured and correlated with respect to each other so as to attain the desired objective.
DDDR:: First provided is an interior layer 14. The interior layer has an inner surface 16. The inner surface is positionable in pressure-exerting contact with the wrist of the user. The interior layer has an outer surface 18. The outer surface is positionable out of contact with the wrist of the user. The interior layer is fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material. The sweat transferring material includes about 80 percent polyester, about 10 percent nylon, and about 10 percent rubber. The interior layer is adapted to attract sweat away from the user at a location adjacent to the inner surface of the interior layer. The interior layer is further adapted to conduct attracted sweat to a location adjacent to the outer surface of the interior layer.
DDDR:: An exterior layer 22 is provided. The exterior layer is positioned overlying the interior layer. The exterior layer has an inner surface 24. The inner surface is adjacent to and faces toward the interior layer. The exterior layer has an outer surface 26. The outer surface faces away from the interior layer and is exposed to the atmosphere. The exterior layer is fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material. The sweat transferring material includes about 80 percent polyester, about 10 percent nylon, and about 10 percent rubber. The term "about" used to identify the percentage of components in the layers is intended to mean the identified percentage plus or minus 10 percent of the identified amount. The exterior layer is adapted to transmit to the intermediate layer sweat generated by a user at locations other than locations contacted by the interior layer.
DDDR:: Provided next is a cylindrical chamber 30. The cylindrical chamber is formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer. The cylindrical chamber has an axial length and a circumference. The circumference is about the same length as the axial length.
DDDR:: Further provided is an intermediate layer 34. The intermediate layer is provided within the chamber. The intermediate layer has an inner surface 36. The inner surface is positioned in pressure contact with the interior layer. The intermediate layer has an outer surface 38. The outer surface is in contact with the exterior layer. The intermediate layer is fabricated of a sweat-trapping and containing material. The material includes 100 percent non-woven cellulose, preferably viscose rayon, a synthetic shammy material. The intermediate layer is adapted to receive sweat from the interior layer. The intermediate layer is adapted to trap and contain several times its weight in sweat. In this manner when a user, such as a tennis player, wearing the system generates sweat at the inner surface of the interior layer, the generated sweat will be trapped and contained in the intermediate layer. The intermediate layer has the capability to trap and contain up to 12 times its weight in sweat. The system is thus significantly more effective than known sweat management devices in keeping dry the wrist, or other body part contacted, of the user. The intermediate layer is formed of two similar panels with stitching 40 coupling the axial ends of each panel to the interior and exterior layers. Axial spacings between the panels with the spacings constituting between 5 and 15 percent of the circumference of the system. Such spacings allow for stretching of the system to facilitate putting on and taking off.
DDDR:: The interior layer and the exterior layer are fabricated of a single piece of fabric 42. The fabric is configured into a generally flat, torus-shaped common piece of fabric. The fabric has free ends. The free ends have stitching 44. The stitching joins the free ends. In this manner the chamber is formed in a generally cylindrical configuration. Also in this manner the intermediate layer is in a generally cylindrical configuration with an oval cross sectional configuration corresponding to the size and shape of the chamber.
DDDR:: FIGS. 4 and 5 illustrate an alternate embodiment 100 of the invention. An interior layer 104 and exterior layer 106 are provided. The interior and exterior layers are fabricated from separate pieces of fabric. The interior and exterior layers include fabric end caps 108. The end caps have stitching 110. The stitching attaches the end caps to the layers and the layers to each other. The chamber has a cylindrical configuration. The chamber is formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer. The chamber has an axial length and a circumference. The circumference is about the same length as the axial length. In this manner the system is adapted to function as a wrist band.
DDDR:: The next alternate embodiment 200 is illustrated in FIG. 6. An interior layer 204 and exterior layer 206 are provided. The interior and exterior layers are fabricated from a single piece of fabric. The chamber is in a cylindrical configuration. The chamber is formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer. The chamber has an axial length and a circumference. The circumference is of a length greater than the axial length. In this manner system is adapted to function as a head band.
DDDR:: Reference is now made to the alternate embodiment 300 as illustrated in FIGS. 7, 8 and 9. An interior layer 304 and exterior layer 306 and the intermediate layer 308 are provided. The interior, exterior, and intermediate layers are fabricated in a generally rectangular configuration. A chamber 310 is provided. The chamber is a generally rectangular chamber. The chamber is formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer. The chamber has an axial length and a height. The axial length is between 2 and 4 times the height. In this manner the layers are positionable across the forehead of a wearer. Further in this manner the system is adapted to function as head wear.
DDDR:: In another alternate embodiment of the present invention a strap 314 is provided. The strap is coupled to and extends rearwardly from the layers. A bill 316 is provided. The bill is coupled to and extends forwardly from the layers. In this manner the system is adapted to function as a visor.
DDDR:: In another alternate embodiment of the present invention a crown 320 is provided. The crown extends upwardly from the layers and the strap. In this manner the system is adapted to function as a cap.
DDDR:: FIGS. 10 and 11 are perspective illustrations of another alternate embodiment 400 of the invention. In such embodiment the interior and exterior and intermediate layers are formed as in the prior embodiments. The layers, however, are formed with the top of a sock for functioning as an athletic sock.
DDDR:: System 500 is illustrated in FIGS. 12 and 13. In such embodiment, the interior and exterior layers 504, 506 and the intermediate layer 508 are fabricated of rectangular pieces of fabric. In addition, the interior and exterior layers and the intermediate layer all have a common height and a common width and a common periphery. The system further includes stitching 510 extending through the interior and exterior and intermediate layers in a rectangular configuration adjacent to the common periphery. In the preferred embodiment, the height is 24 inches and the width is 16 inches. The width is thus between 60 and 75 percent of the height.
DDDR:: The final alternate embodiment of the invention is illustrated in FIGS. 14, 15 and 16. In such system 600, the interior layer is a shirt 604. The shirt has a front and a back and sides. A neck opening 606 is above with laterally spaced arm openings 608 and a waist opening 610 below. The waist opening has a circumference. The exterior layer 612 and the intermediate layer 614 include a first side assembly 616 and a second side assembly 618. The exterior layers and intermediate layers of the first and second side assemblies have the same size and shape with a linear portion 616 below and an arcuate portion 618 above. The linear portion is between 10 and 25 percent of the circumference and the maximum height of the arcuate portion is between 40 and 50 percent of the vertical distance between the waist opening and an arm opening.
DDDR:: As to the manner of usage and operation of the present invention, the same should be apparent from the above description. Accordingly, no further discussion relating to the manner of usage and operation will be provided.
DDDR:: With respect to the above description then, it is to be realized that the optimum dimensional relationships for the parts of the invention, to include variations in size, materials, shape, form, function and manner of operation, assembly and use, are deemed readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art, and all equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed by the present invention.
DDDR:: Therefore, the foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further, since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art, it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation shown and described, and accordingly, all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to, falling within the scope of the invention.
CLI :: 1. A sweat management system comprising: an interior layer having inner and outer surfaces, the interior layer being fabricated of a sweat transferring material; an exterior layer positioned overlying the interior layer, the exterior layer having inner and outer surfaces, the exterior layer being fabricated of a sweat transferring material; a chamber formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer; and an intermediate layer within the chamber in pressure contact with the interior layer, the intermediate layer having an inner surface positioned in pressure contact with the interior layer, the intermediate layer having an outer surface in contact with the exterior layer, the intermediate layer being fabricated of a sweat-trapping and containing material, the material including 100 percent non-woven cellulose, preferably viscose rayon, a synthetic shammy material, the intermediate layer adapted to transmit sweat from the interior layer to the intermediate layer for trapping and containing sweat from the wrist of the user wearing the system, the intermediate layer adapted to trap and contain several times its weight in sweat whereby when a user wearing the system generates sweat at the inner surface of the interior layer, the generated sweat will be trapped and contained in the intermediate layer, the intermediate layer having the capability to trap and contain up to 12 times its weight in sweat whereby the system is significantly more effective than known sweat management devices in keeping dry the wrist of the user.
CLI :: 2. A wrist band comprising: an interior layer having inner and outer surfaces, the interior layer being fabricated of a sweat transferring material; an exterior layer positioned overlying the interior layer, the exterior layer having inner and outer surfaces, the exterior layer being fabricated of a sweat transferring material; a chamber formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer; and an intermediate layer within the chamber in pressure contact with the interior layer, the intermediate layer being fabricated of a sweat-trapping and containing material, the interior and exterior layers being fabricated from a single piece of fabric and the chamber being in a cylindrical configuration formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer, the chamber having an axial length and a circumference, the circumference being about the same length as the axial length whereby the system is adapted to function as a wrist band, the intermediate layer adapted to transmit sweat from the interior layer to the intermediate layer for trapping and containing sweat from the wrist of the user wearing the system, the intermediate layer adapted to trap and contain several times its weight in sweat whereby when a user wearing the system generates sweat at the inner surface of the interior layer, the generated sweat will be trapped and contained in the intermediate layer, whereby the system is significantly more effective than known sweat management devices in keeping dry the wrist of the user, the intermediate layer being formed of two similar panels with stitching coupling the axial ends of each panel to the interior and exterior layers, axial spacings formed between the panels with the spacings constituting between 5 and 15 percent of the circumference of the system.
CLI :: 3. A sweat management system for conducting sweat away from a wrist of a user wearing the system and for trapping and containing such conducted sweat, the system comprising, in combination: an interior layer having an inner surface positionable in pressure-exerting contact with the wrist of the user, the interior layer having an outer surface positionable out of contact with the wrist of the user, the interior layer being fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material including about 80 percent polyester, about 10 percent nylon, and about 10 percent rubber, the interior layer adapted to attract sweat away from the wrist of the user at a location adjacent to the inner surface of the interior layer and conduct such attracted sweat to a location adjacent to the outer surface of the interior layer; an exterior layer positioned overlying the interior layer, the exterior layer having an inner surface adjacent to and facing toward the interior layer, the exterior layer having an outer surface facing away from the interior layer and exposed to the atmosphere, the exterior layer being fabricated of an elastic sweat transferring material including about 80 percent polyester, about 10 percent nylon, and about 10 percent rubber, the exterior layer being adapted to transmit sweat generated by a user at locations other than locations contacted by the interior layer; a cylindrical chamber formed between the interior layer and the exterior layer, the cylindrical chamber having an axial length and a circumference, the circumference being about the same length as the axial length; an intermediate layer within the chamber, the intermediate layer having an inner surface positioned in pressure contact with the interior layer, the intermediate layer having an outer surface in contact with the exterior layer, the intermediate layer being fabricated of a sweat-trapping and containing material, the material including 100 percent non-woven cellulose, preferably viscose rayon, a synthetic shammy material, the intermediate layer adapted to transmit sweat from the interior layer to the intermediate layer for trapping and containing sweat from the wrist of the user wearing the system, the intermediate layer adapted to trap and contain several times its weight in sweat whereby when a user wearing the system generates sweat at the inner surface of the interior layer, the generated sweat will be trapped and contained in the intermediate layer, the intermediate layer having the capability to trap and contain up to 12 times its weight in sweat whereby the system is significantly more effective than known sweat management devices in keeping dry the wrist of the user, the intermediate layer being formed of two similar panels with stitching coupling the axial ends of each panel to the interior and exterior layers, axial spacings formed between the panels with the spacings constituting between 5 and 15 percent of the circumference of the system; and the interior layer and the exterior layer being fabricated of a single piece of fabric configured into a generally flat, torus-shaped common piece of fabric having free ends with stitching joining the free ends, whereby the chamber is formed in a generally cylindrical configuration and whereby the intermediate layer is in a generally cylindrical configuration corresponding to the size and shape of the chamber.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Hybrid hosiery
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661568
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 12845320
APDT:: 20100728
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 1315
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 1679
INVS:: O'BRIEN KERRY K.
APLS:: O'BRIEN KERRY K.
LREP:: DOWNS RACHLIN MARTIN PLLC
ASSE:: COMMANDO, LLC
EXMR:: QUINN RICHALE
NCLS:: 11
NCLI:: 2
NCLD:: 9
NFIG:: 8
DSCL:: 2027
SUML:: 232
BKGL:: 251
DDRL:: 376
DDSL:: 1425
CLFL:: 228
CLIL:: 229
CLDL:: 254
NREF:: 42
NRFA:: 0
NRFX:: 42
IPCC:: A-A-41-B-9-04-F-I
USCC::   2239|  2409||  2409|602 25|  2239|  2240| 66178 R|  2239|450104|  2409| 66187|  2409|450116| 66169 R|  2240| 66  1 A| 66 27|  2409|  2409|  2409|112441|112 63|  2409| 66193|  2409|  2239|135 332|  2409|  2409| 66178 R| 66171|  2239|  2409|139422| 66172 E|139422|11247508| 66172 E| 66202|  2239| 66178 R|  2409|  2407|  2239|  2409||  2407||  2239||  2241||  2242||  2400||  2401||  2406|| 66104|| 66171|| 66172 R|| 66178 R|| 66169 R|| 66178 A||450104|
SFLD::   2409|  2407|  2239|  2241|  2242|  2400|  2401|  2406| 66104| 66171| 66172 R| 66178 R| 66169 R| 66178 A|450104
RLDX:: PRV:61229594:20090729
NRLD:: 1
NPRV:: 1
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: Hosiery that includes a legwear portion and a waistband secured to the legwear portion. The waistband is made of an elastic material having an unfinished upper edge. The waistband also has an unfinished lower edge that is secured to the legwear portion at a seam that allows the hosiery to lay substantially flat against a wearer's body. The unfinished upper edge of the waistband can provide the wearer with greater comfort relative to conventional hosiery having finished upper edges, which often results in visible and uncomfortable restriction. This hybrid construction also allows the waistband to have varying width around its circumference to compensate for shortcomings of a legwear portion made using conventional tube-construction techniques and/or, when the waistband has a lower stretchability than the legwear portion, to compensate for this lower stretchability.
DHXX:: RELATED APPLICATION DATA
DDXX:: This application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61/229,594, filed on Jul. 29, 2009, and titled "Hybrid Hosiery," which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
DHXX:: FIELD OF THE INVENTION
DDXX:: The present invention generally relates to the field of hosiery. In particular, the present invention is directed to hybrid hosiery.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND
DDBK:: Women (and sometimes men) typically wear hosiery (nylons, tights, leggings) on their legs, usually under a dress or skirt. Reasons people wear hosiery are: for support, to even skin tone and flatter the body, for additional warmth, to cover their legs to be more conservative, as an undergarment, for extra coverage in case her dress/skirt flies up, or simply as a fashion accessory.
DDBK:: Typical hosiery is made largely of spun nylon blended with spandex, sometimes with a cotton-lined crotch. The top of the garment is folded over, creating a waistband at the top of the garment. The waistband is deemed necessary in order to finish the knit nylon, as well as being necessary in order to prevent the garment from slipping down from the waist to the wearer's hips. As those skilled in the art will understand, a variety of other yarns are used or blended to make the legs.
DDBK:: Traditionally, whether hosiery is control top or designed for comfort, the waistband digs into the wearer's body. The digging effect is uncomfortable for the wearer, as her body is constricted. The discomfort is further exacerbated when the wearer is seated and/or after a full day dressed in traditional hosiery. In addition to discomfort, traditional waistbands are inadequate because they create an undesirable look where the woman's body bulges over the top of the narrow, constricting waistband.
DHSM:: SUMMARY
DDSM:: In one implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a hosiery that includes: a legwear portion made of a first stretchable material, the legwear portion having an upper end; and a waistband having a raw-cut upper edge and a raw-cut lower edge, the raw-cut lower edge secured to the legwear portion at the upper end of the legwear portion with a smooth seam, the waistband being made of a second stretchable material that does not roll and does not fray at the raw-cut upper edge.
DDSM:: In another implementation, the present disclosure is directed to a hosiery that includes: a legwear portion made of a first stretchable material having a denier in a range from about 3 to about 100, the legwear portion having an upper end located at about the hips of an intended wearer when the hosiery is worn by the intended wearer; and a waistband having a raw-cut upper edge and a raw-cut lower edge, the raw-cut lower edge secured to the legwear portion at the upper end with a smooth seam, the waistband being made of a second stretchable material that does not roll and does not fray at the raw-cut upper edge, wherein the raw-cut upper edge of the waistband is located at about the waist of the intended wearer when the intended wearer is wearing the hosiery.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: For the purpose of illustrating the invention, the drawings show aspects of one or more embodiments of the invention. However, it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and instrumentalities show in the drawings, wherein:
DDDR:: FIG. 1A is an elevational front view of an example of hybrid hosiery made in accordance with the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 1B is an enlarged partial front view of the example of FIG. 1A showing the detail of the front center seam connection between the waistband and legwear;
DDDR:: FIG. 1C is an enlarged partial bottom view of the example of FIG. 1A showing the cotton-lined gusset;
DDDR:: FIG. 2 is an enlarged overhead view of the inside of the example of FIG. 1A, showing locations of various seams;
DDDR:: FIG. 3A is an enlarged partial elevational front view of the example of FIG. 1A showing the raw edge (no elastic) of the waistband;
DDDR:: FIG. 3B is a further enlarged partial elevational front view of the intersection of a side of the hybrid hosiery at the waistband and the unfinished upper edge of the waistband, as taken from FIG. 3A;
DDDR:: FIG. 3C is a further enlarged partial perspective view highlighting the overlock seam, as taken from FIG. 3A; and
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is a side-elevational partial view of a person wearing the hybrid hosiery of FIG. 1A, demonstrating a practical use of the hosiery in everyday wear under a skirt.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION
DDDD:: Hybrid hosiery made in accordance with concepts disclosed herein is unique because the construction of the garment incorporates a special waistband made of a special nylon/spandex blend fabric that does not curl or fray when cut and does not require a finish, such as hem or attached elastic or trim. The hybrid hosiery waistband is raw cut, leaving the top of the garment with a completely unfinished edge. The raw-cut edges provide an aesthetically pleasing look that looks clean and lays flat. Additionally, the raw-cut edges provide comfort because they do not dig into the wearer's waist. In one embodiment, the hybrid hosiery includes knit legwear that is secured to the raw-cut waistband using an overlock stitch seam. The unique fabric of the waistband is constructed in such a manner that creates the precise amount of friction that is required in order to keep the garment in the proper location on the wearer's body. The exact sizing and proportions of hybrid hosiery prevent the garment from slipping from the wearer's waist down to her hips or lower. Furthermore, the special properties of the waistband's fabric allow the unfinished edge without any rolling effect. Typically, an unfinished seam would curl outward, especially as the wearer moved and changed body positions, and the garment would roll down her body.
DDDD:: Referring now to the drawings, FIGS. 1A-B illustrate an example of hybrid hosiery 100 that combines a knit legwear portion 101 with a raw-cut nylon-spandex microfiber waistband 102. In one example, waistband 102 is made of a 72% nylon/28% spandex blend. As those skilled in the art will appreciate, nylon-spandex material having other relative blends are available and could be used in place of the noted 72% nylon/28% spandex blend. In addition, such blends may include other material(s) in various amounts. In this example, waistband portion 102 is secured to the legwear portion 101 so as to create an invisible, non-constricting garment, and the legwear portion is made of a conventional tubular knit pantyhose material, such as a nylon-based material having a denier ranging from about 3 to about 100.
DDDD:: Nylon/spandex waistband 102 is secured to knit legwear portion 101 at a seam, for example, a 4-thread overlock stitch seam 103 that has been graded. Using stretchy thread that allows for additional movement, stitches are the proper distance from each other to ensure comfort, flexibility and stretchability that complements the stretchability of waistband 102 and knit legwear portion 101. Nylon/spandex waistband 102 is sewn with certain pleating 104 that further increases the comfort for the person wearing the garment. Hybrid hosiery 100 is sized so that pleating 104 flattens smoothly and disappears against the body when a person wears the garment, therefore increasing the invisibility of the hosiery. Graded seam 103 allows the two different materials to join smoothly. In this example, hybrid hosiery 100 is provided with a gusset 105 lined with cotton so as to allow the garment to be worn as an undergarment without supplemental intimate apparel.
DDDD:: Waistband 102 has an upper edge that is raw cut and remains so when hybrid hosiery 100 is completed and ready for use. Since the raw cut waistband 102 can be created in a traditional cut and sew process and legwear portion 101 will typically be constructed in a tapered tube shape in a circular knit process, other unique advantages can be brought to bear from variable width waistbands, such as having a waistband higher in the back than in the front, or vice versa. To finish traditional hosiery, manufacturers will (a) fold over the top of the "tube" to form, for example, a 1-inch "self" waistband or (b) sew on a separate elastic strip to function as a waistband. In both cases the waistband is a uniform width. Hybrid hosiery 100, which utilizes a separate fabric sheet that can be cut to exact shape specifications to form waistband 102, affords the ability to, for example, taper the waistband to be 4.5 inches (11.43 cm) high in the front and 5.5 inches (13.97 cm) high in the back when the hosiery is worn, as measured from waistband seam 103. Such a waistband width differential, in this case resulting in a front/back height differential, can improve the appearance, function and fit of the finished garment in a way that traditional approaches cannot. For example, in conventional hosiery made using typical tube-construction techniques, the waistband can ride lower on the wearer in the rear than in the front as the hosiery is stressed and strained in its seat portion to accommodate the buttocks of the wearer. When it occurs, this unevenness of a conventional waistband can be uncomfortable to the wearer, especially when the finished upper is tight on the wearer. In another example, when the material of waistband 102 is relatively less stretchable than the material of legwear portion 101, providing the waistband with a greater width in the rear provides more waistband material to accommodate the greater stretching caused by the wearer's buttocks. In other words, the extra material in waistband 102 at the rear of hosiery 100 compensates for its lower stretchability, thus providing greater comfort to the wearer.
DDDD:: FIG. 2 illustrates an example of the tapering of waistband 102 mentioned above and in which the waistband tapers in width from the rear 120 to front 124 of hybrid hosiery 100. As seen in FIG. 2, which can be taken to scale, the width, WR, of waistband 102 at rear 120 is greater than the width, WF, of the waistband at front 124. In one example, noted above, width WR is 5.5 inches (13.97 cm) and width WF is 4.5 inches (11.43 cm). FIGS. 1A, 3A, and 3B also attempt to show the width differential of waistband 102 as between front 124 and rear 120 by raw edge 107 at the rear being shown higher than the raw edge at the front. It is also mentioned above that waistband 102 can be wider at front 124 than at rear 120. This situation is depicted in FIG. 4, wherein front width WF' is shown as being greater than rear width WR' by virtue of raw edge 107 being higher at front 124' (i.e., at the lower abdominal region 128 of the wearer 132) than at rear 120'.
DDDD:: Seam 106 (FIG. 2) on legwear portion 101 is tighter than waistband seam 103, thereby increasing the strength and flexibility of the garment. All seams, here, seams 103, 106, align in such a manner so as to lay smooth against a wearer's body. Pleating 104 of waistband 102 is increased when the garment is not on a body, allowing comfort when putting on the garment. Overlock seam 103 is sewn in a manner that allows the garment to stretch to fit.
DDDD:: Depending on the length of the wearer's skirt or dress, legwear portion 101 is usually visible. Waistband 102, however, is not seen, as it is worn as an undergarment. As demonstrated by FIG. 4, hybrid hosiery 100 is flexible, allowing the wearer a wide range of movement. The raw edge 107 of waistband 102 lays completely flat against the wearer's body without digging into the body or creating a visible line. Additionally, seam 103 between legwear portion 101 and waistband 102 is stretchy, smooth, and invisible.
DDDD:: Exemplary embodiments have been disclosed above and illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes, omissions and additions may be made to that which is specifically disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention
CLI :: 1. A hosiery for being worn by a wearer having a left leg, a right leg, hips, a lower abdominal region, and a waist, the hosiery comprising: a legwear portion made of a first stretchable material, said legwear portion including: an upper portion having an upper end located at about the hips of the wearer when the wearer is wearing the hosiery, said legwear portion designed and configured so that said legwear portion has: a front located proximate the lower abdominal region of the wearer when the wearer is wearing the hosiery; and a rear located opposite said front when the wearer is wearing the hosiery; a left-leg portion connected to said upper portion and designed and configured to be worn on the left leg of the wearer; and a right-leg portion connected to said upper portion and designed and configured to be worn on the right leg of the wearer; and a waistband having a raw-cut upper edge and a raw-cut lower edge, said raw-cut lower edge secured to said legwear portion at said upper end of said legwear portion with a smooth seam, said waistband being made of a second stretchable material that does not roll and does not fray at said raw-cut upper edge, wherein: said waistband has a width between said raw-cut upper and lower edges that tapers between said front and back; and said raw-cut upper edge remains unfinished when the hosiery is completed.
CLD :: 2. The hosiery according to claim 1, wherein said waistband has a first width between said raw-cut upper and lower edges at said front of said legwear portion and a second width between said raw-cut upper and lower edges at said rear of said legwear portion, wherein said second width is greater than said first width.
CLD :: 3. The hosiery according to claim 1, wherein said waistband has a minimum width between said raw-cut upper and lower edges that is greater than about 4 inches (10.16 cm).
CLD :: 4. The hosiery according to claim 1, wherein said first stretchable material has a denier from about 3 to about 100.
CLD :: 5. The hosiery according to claim 1, wherein said second stretchable material comprises a nylon-spandex blend.
CLD :: 6. The hosiery according to claim 1, wherein said legwear portion is a product of a circular knitting process.
CLI :: 7. A hosiery for being worn by a wearer having a left leg, a right leg, hips, a lower abdominal region, and a waist, the hosiery comprising: a legwear portion made of a first stretchable material having a denier in a range from about 3 to about 100, said legwear portion having an upper end located at about the hips of the wearer when the hosiery is worn by the wearer, said legwear portion designed and configured so that said legwear portion has: a front located proximate the lower abdominal region of the wearer when the wearer is wearing the hosiery; and a rear located opposite said front when the wearer is wearing the hosiery; a left-leg portion connected to said upper portion and designed and configured to be worn on the left leg of the wearer; and a right-leg portion connected to said upper portion and designed and configured to be worn on the right leg of the wearer; and a waistband having a raw-cut upper edge and a raw-cut lower edge, said raw-cut lower edge secured to said legwear portion at said upper end with a smooth seam, said waistband being made of a second stretchable material that does not roll and does not fray at said raw-cut upper edge, wherein said raw-cut upper edge of the waistband is located at about the waist of the intended wearer when the intended wearer is wearing the hosiery, wherein: said waistband has a width between said raw-cut upper and lower edges that tapers between said front and back; and said raw-cut upper edge remains unfinished when the hosiery is completed.
CLD :: 8. The hosiery according to claim 7, wherein said second stretchable material comprises a nylon-spandex blend.
CLD :: 9. The hosiery according to claim 8, wherein said legwear portion is a product of a circular knitting process.
CLD :: 10. The hosiery according to claim 7, wherein said waistband has a minimum width between said raw-cut upper and lower edges that is greater than about 4 inches (10.16 cm).
CLD :: 11. The hosiery according to claim 7, wherein said waistband has a first width between said raw-cut upper and lower edges at said front of said legwear portion and a second width between said raw-cut upper and lower edges at said rear of said legwear portion, wherein said second width is greater than said first width.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Functional underpants for men
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661569
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 13259714
APDT:: 20091214
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 1541
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 1541
INVS:: BAEK GYEONG-SU
APLS:: BAEK GYEONG-SU
LREP:: CANTOR COLBURN LLP
ASSE:: 
EXMR:: HUYNH KHOA|COLLINS ANDREW W
NCLS:: 3
NCLI:: 1
NCLD:: 2
NFIG:: 5
DSCL:: 4823
SUML:: 0
BKGL:: 2535
DDRL:: 2795
DDSL:: 0
CLFL:: 366
CLIL:: 367
CLDL:: 107
NREF:: 8
NRFA:: 8
NRFX:: 0
IPCC:: A-A-41-B-9-02-F-I
USCC::   2403|  2400||  2403||  2466||  2400||  2401||  2404||  2405|
SFLD::   2403|  2466|  2400|  2401|  2404|  2405
RLDX:: XXX:20120017356:20120126
NRLD:: 1
NPRV:: 0
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: Functional underpants comprise a penis support member having a double structure comprising an outer cloth and an inner cloth, a scrotum support member having a single structure and being formed vertically under and connected to the penis support member, and a rear member connected to a lower end of the scrotum support member having the single structure. The outer cloth of the penis support member includes a first bending section, a second bending section having a horizontal length and formed under the first bending section, and a first curved portion formed between the first and second bending sections, which create a penis pocket along with the inner cloth of the penis support member. The scrotum support member includes the second bending section, a third bending section, and a second curved portion formed between the second and third bending sections, which form a scrotum pocket.
DHXX:: TECHNICAL FIELD
DDXX:: The present invention relates to functional underpants for men, in which a penis pocket and a scrotum pocket are independently formed, thereby securing air permeability and improving sexual health of a wearer.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND ART
DDBK:: Recently, following the vitalization of various leisure activities, such as sports and mountain climbing, which cause one to perspire a large amount, men, as well as women, have taken greater interest in functional innerwear, such as underpants.
DDBK:: According to medical reports, when a temperature of the scrotum of a man is about 33.5deg. C., the scrotum generates the healthiest sperm, and when the temperature of the testicles in the scrotum rises even by 1deg. C., the function of the scrotum may deteriorate. Further, if a temperature of the scrotum rises by 35deg. C. or higher, a risk of aspermia has been documented (reported by a research team of Dr. Patrick Tono: Laboratory for male-sterility in France Toulouse, June, 2000).
DDBK:: Especially, when the male sex hormone is produced in abundance, men are healthy and active. However, when a man wears existing triangle-shaped underpants (briefs) or quadrangle-shaped underpants (boxers), the penis instantly descends again due to the space between the penis and the scrotum. As a result, the penis is in contact with the testicles so that heat is generated, and when the penis and the testicles sweat, various bacteria are generated thereby generating a bad smell, and when the penis is unclean, this exerts a bad influence on the health of the uterus of a woman as well.
DDBK:: Therefore, it is necessary to research and develop the underpants for men to be segmented through a design based on the human engineering such that the penis is prevented from being in contact with the scrotum, and previously functional underpants have been researched and developed by many researchers.
DDBK:: An example of the functional underpants for men is proposed in Korea Utility Model Registration Publication No. 20-0248176 (hereinafter, referred to as :ux2018;invention 1:ux2019;) and Korea Utility Model Registration Publication No. 20-0346580 (hereinafter, referred to as :ux2018;invention 2:ux2019;).
DDBK:: In invention 1, underpants 1 include corrugated portions 3 formed at a central part and left and right sides of a front surface of the underpants 1 by tightly sewing left and right sides of a predetermined portion in a streamlined shape, and a first protruding portion 3-1 in which the penis (A) can be positioned on an upper side of the corrugated portions 3, and a second protruding portion 3-2 in which the scrotum (B) can be positioned on a lower side of the corrugated portions 3. Therefore, the underpants 1 can prevent the penis from leaning to the scrotum region or the groin region to prevent the sweating caused by the direct skin contact, thereby preventing skin inflammation, such as eczema (see FIG. 1A).
DDBK:: Further, in invention 2, underpants include an inner cloth 20 and an outer cloth 10, and the inner cloth 20 positioned in a central portion within the underpants is formed to be shorter than the outer cloth 10 such that the inner cloth 20 accommodates only the penis, not the scrotum. The inner cloth 20 is formed of a spandex material having resilience or a band 30 having enough strength to maintain a supporting state is attached to the lower end of the inner cloth 20. Further, when the inner cloth 20 and the outer cloth 10 are sewed while being set on the inside of the outer cloth 10, a bending portion corresponding to a line of the penis and the scrotum is formed in the outer cloth 10 and the inner cloth 20, so that the penis can be always separated from the scrotum while a wearer wears the underpants and thus the air is well ventilated (see FIG. 1B).
DDBK:: However, the multiple corrugated portions 3 and the first protruding portion 3-1 among the constitutional elements of invention 1 can sufficiently hold the penis (A) such that the penis (A) faces the hypogastric center under the navel in a state of the moderate erection of the penis (A). Otherwise, when a wearer strenuously exercises or greatly moves, there is a high possibility in that the penis (A) leans toward the left or right side or descends to the groin side again.
DDBK:: Further, among the constitutional elements of invention 2, the inner cloth, which is formed and sewn to be bent together with the outer cloth, is characterized in that it is formed of a spandex material having resilience or the band 30 is attached to the lower end of the inner cloth so as to separate the penis from the scrotum. However, in investigating the function of separating the penis and the scrotum of invention 2 including the above cloth as the constitutional element in detail, it can be seen that the cutting shape of the spandex material or the shape of the inner cloth fails to have the portion that is sufficiently bent, and the penis and the scrotum are almost supported and separated substantially by the band. Therefore, in invention 2, it is essentially required to add a band in manufacturing the underpants, thereby causing an increase in the number of processes, and an increase in manufacturing costs. Further, the function of separating the penis and the scrotum may be changed depending on the material of the used band and if the material of the used band is not good, it may cause the unpleasant feeling of a wearer as well.
DDBK:: Especially, in investigating inventions 1 and 2 in more detail, in order to completely surround the scrotum through :ux2018;the second protruding portion 3-2 and a rear member surrounding a hip portion:ux2019; (see invention 1) and :ux2018;a scrotum support portion and a rear portion of the outer cloth:ux2019; (see invention 2), the lower portion of the second protruding portion and the upper portion of the rear member are connected by means of sewing, or the lower portion of the scrotum support portion and the upper portion of the rear portion of the outer cloth are connected by means of sewing. In this time, a curved portion and a section having a predetermined size r (a curvature) should be formed such that the members simultaneously applies contractile force and tension to the penis region and the scrotum region while a wearer wears the underpants. However, the actual underpants do not have the above configuration. Therefore, inventions 1 and 2 still have a problem in that when the two testicles of the scrotum having different sizes contract/expand according to personal physical changes, there is no interoperation between the scrotum and scrotum support member that can be generated due to the gravity applied to the testicles of the scrotum since the scrotum support member cannot completely surround the scrotum, and the scrotum may apply pressure to the groin region, thereby causing a sexual health problem according to a failure of the obtainment of air permeability.
DHBK:: DISCLOSURE
DHBK:: TECHNICAL PROBLEM
DDBK:: Accordingly, the present invention has been made to solve the above-mentioned problems occurring in the prior art, and the present invention provides functional underpants for men, in which a plurality of curved portions and a plurality of sections having a predetermined size r are formed between a penis support member having a double structure, a scrotum support member having a single structure and a rear member and connected to each other by means of sewing, so that a penis pocket and a scrotum pocket are generated. Therefore, the functional underpants can completely separate the penis and the scrotum from each other by tension and contractile force while a wearer wears the underpants, thereby securing the air permeability and further improving sexual health as well.
DHBK:: TECHNICAL SOLUTION
DDBK:: In accordance with an aspect of the present invention, there are provided functional underpants for men for securing air permeability and improving sexual health, the functional underpants comprising:
DDBK:: a penis support member including a functional member and means of the functional member and having a double structure comprising an outer cloth and an inner cloth;
DDBK:: a scrotum support member having a single structure and being inserted between the outer cloth and the inner cloth of the penis support member having the double structure by sewing; and
DDBK:: a rear member connected to a lower end of the scrotum support member having the single structure and to the left and right sides of the outer cloth of the front portion of the underpants by means of sewing,
DDBK:: characterized in that a penis pocket and a scrotum pocket are generated, respectively, due to application of tension and contractile force to the penis support member and the scrotum support member while a wearer wears the functional underpants, by a first bending section, a second bending section, a third bending section, a first curved portion, and a second curved portion provided at the penis support member, the scrotum support member and the rear member,
DDBK:: wherein the first bending section is formed by, when an entirety of the penis support member is divided into three segments along a horizontal axis, a first segment from the upper portion of the penis support member being cut in a vertical direction so as to be narrower than the first curved portion which occupies the remaining two segments of the penis support member and has a predetermined curvature and the first segment being connected with the upper end of the remaining two segments by sewing;
DDBK:: the second bending section is formed by being cut to have the first curved portion which is connected to the first bending section and has the predetermined curvature such that the remaining two segments of the segmented penis support member form a parabola when being folded in half, and by being connected to an upper end of the scrotum support member by means of sewing; and
DDBK:: the third bending section is formed by being cut to have a second curved portion having a curvature that is larger than that of the first curved portion of the penis support member and being connected to the second bending section, and by being connected to a lower end of the scrotum support member and a lower end of the rear member by means of sewing.
DDBK:: According to an exemplary embodiment, the scrotum support member is formed of a material in which a ratio of a yarn with 30 to 40 deniers with respect to spandex is 95:5.
DDBK:: According to an exemplary embodiment, an entire contour of the penis support member is cut to have a rectangular shape and then is connected to the front portion of the functional underpants by means of sewing such that the penis faces the hypogastic center under the navel by tension while a wearer wears the functional underpants.
DDBK:: According to an exemplary embodiment, a connected part between the lower end of the penis support member and the upper end of the scrotum support member, and a connected part between the lower end of the scrotum support member and the lower end of the rear member have an identical length so that penis A and scrotum B can be completely and independently separated from each other due to contractile force applied to the penis support member and the scrotum support member by the first bending section, the second bending section and the third bending section.
DDBK:: According to an exemplary embodiment, the penis pocket for preventing the penis (A) from leaning toward a left or right side or descending is independently separated from the scrotum pocket for simultaneously inter-operating according to the contraction of the scrotum (B).
DHBK:: ADVANTAGEOUS EFFECTS
DDBK:: Accordingly, the present invention has the following effects.
DDBK:: The present invention includes the penis pocket and the scrotum pocket formed by connecting the plurality of curved portions and the plurality of sections having the predetermined curvature r between the penis support member having the double structure, the scrotum support member having the single structure, and the rear member by means of sewing.
DDBK:: Therefore, the functional underpants of the present invention can allow the penis part and the scrotum to be completely separated from each other by tension and contractile force while a wearer wears the underpants and sufficiently secure the air permeability because the scrotum support member has the single structure.
DDBK:: Even when a wearer strenuously exercises or moves significantly while wearing the underpants, the present invention can prevent the penis, which initially faces the hypogastric center under the navel when a wearer wears the underpants, from leaning toward a left or right side or dropping toward the groin side, so that it is possible to prevent the generation of sweat caused by the contact of the penis with the testicles and the generation of various bacteria and a bad smell caused by sweat in advance.
DDBK:: When the two testicles are contracted and expanded according to personal physical changes, the scrotum pocket formed in the scrotum support member is also simultaneously and interoperably contracted and expanded, so that the present invention can prevent the generation of a sexual health problem, which is caused by the application of the pressure of the testicles of the scrotum to the groin side by gravity and a failure of the security of the air permeability, in advance.
DDBK:: The present invention does not adopt the conventional scheme in which the band is used, or the lower portion of the inner cloth made of a spandex material is cut to be narrow in comparison with the outer cloth and pulled up and connected to the outer cloth by means of sewing, so that there is little case in which the band or the spandex material loses the resilience even when a wearer wears the functional underpants of the present invention for a long time, thereby achieving the relatively long lifespan of the underpants.
DDBK:: In order to independently separate the penis and the scrotum from each other, it is completely unnecessary to use the band, or to cut the lower portion of the inner cloth made of a spandex material to be narrow in comparison with the outer cloth and pull up and connect the inner cloth to the outer cloth by means of sewing as disclosed in the conventional art, so that the present invention can omit an addition of an expensive material, such as a band, or decrease the number of operational processes, thereby reducing the manufacturing costs.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: The above and other aspects, features and advantages of the present invention will be more apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
DDDR:: FIGS. 1A and 1B are views schematically illustrating conventional underpants for men;
DDDR:: FIG. 2 is a view illustrating an entire structure of functional underpants for men according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is a view specifically illustrating functional parts of functional underpants for men according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is a view illustrating a front member, a rear member, and a side member of functional underpants for men according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention; and
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is a view illustrating an incised portion of a rear member of functional underpants for men according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
DHDR:: MODE FOR INVENTION
DDDR:: Hereinafter, exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. The construction illustrated in the exemplary embodiments and drawings is merely the preferred embodiments of the present invention, and does not speak for the technical sprit of the present invention. In the following description, the same elements will be designated by the same reference numerals although they are shown in different drawings. Further, in the following description, detailed explanation of known related functions and constitutions may be omitted so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the subject manner of the present invention.
DDDR:: FIGS. 1A and 1B are views schematically illustrating underpants for men according to a conventional art, FIG. 2 is a view illustrating an entire structure of functional underpants for men according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, FIG. 3 is a view specifically illustrating functional parts of functional underpants for men according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, FIG. 4 is a view illustrating a front member, a rear member, and a side member of functional underpants for men according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, and FIG. 5 is a view illustrating a section of a rear member of functional underpants for men according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
DDDR:: An essential technical construction of the functional underpants 100 for men according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a front member 110, a penis support member 120 having a double structure, a scrotum support member 130 having a single structure, a rear member 140, first through third bending sections 210, 230, and 250, first and second curved portions 220 and 240, a penis pocket 260, and a scrotum pocket 270.
DDDR:: Referring to FIG. 2, the present invention has a general structure of underpants in which the front member 110 and the rear member 140 are connected by means of sewing, and especially includes functional members and their means formed at a front portion of the underpants. In detail, the present invention includes the penis support member 120 having the double structure including an outer cloth 101 and an inner cloth 102 and the scrotum support member 130 having the single structure inserted between and connected with the outer cloth 101 and the inner cloth 102 of the penis support member 120 by means of sewing.
DDDR:: The penis support member 120 is a means for supporting the penis such that the penis of a man always faces the hypogastric center under the navel while a man wears the underpants, has the double structure formed of the outer cloth 101 and the inner cloth 102, and is connected to the front member 110 of the underpants 100.
DDDR:: In detail, an entire contour of the penis support member 120 is cut to have a rectangular shape so as to allow the penis to face the hypogastric center under the navel by tension while a wearer wears the underpants and then the penis support member 120 is formed at the front member 110 of the underpants 100 by means of sewing.
DDDR:: The outer cloth 101 may be made of tencel, which is called :ux2018;Lyo Cell:ux2019; which is a new type of fiber of refined cellulose and is a compound word of :ux2018;Lyo:ux2019; meaning a solvent in the Greek language and :ux2018;Cell:ux2019; of cellulose. Here, the tencel improves on a decisive disadvantage of a cellulose fiber, such as artificial silk, to obtain a soft tactile sensation next to that of silk and a great drape property of sagging wrinkles, and has a hydroscopic property like a natural fiber and a strong durability comparable with polyester, so that it is a 100% chemical-free fiber which solves a problem of environmental pollution in that it can be simply water-cleaned.
DDDR:: The inner cloth 102 may be made of a spandex material having excellent resilience.
DDDR:: Meanwhile, the scrotum support member 130 having the single structure is formed by the upper portion being inserted and connected between the outer cloth 101 and the inner cloth 102 of the penis support member 120 having the double structure by means of sewing and then the lower portion being connected to the lower end of the rear member 140 by means of sewing. The scrotum support member 130 is formed of a functional member to surround the scrotum. The scrotum support member 130 is formed in the single structure including the outer cloth 101, which discharges heat generated by strenuous exercise or a large amount of movement while a wearer wears the underpants and offers air permeability so as to prevent the wrinkles of the scrotum from sweating.
DDDR:: The penis support member 120 and the scrotum support member 130 are made of a material containing a spandex, and the scrotum support member 130 especially is formed of a material in which the ratio of yarn with 30 to 40 deniers with respect to the spandex is 95:5.
DDDR:: Referring to FIGS. 2 to 5, the rear member 140 is a functional member which is connected to the lower end of the scrotum support member 130 having the single structure and the sides of the left and right surfaces of the outer cloth 101 of the front member 110 by means of sewing. The rear member 140 includes an incised portion 280 formed at the lower end of the rear member 140 and incised with a predetermined curvature in order to supplement a function of the scrotum pocket 260 which will be described later.
DDDR:: The incised portion 280 is connected to an incised portion (not shown) incised at the lower end of the scrotum support member 130 by means of sewing (see the third bending section 250 of FIG. 3).
DDDR:: Meanwhile, referring to FIGS. 2 and 3, the first bending section 210, the second bending section 230, and the third bending section 250 are functional means configured to independently and completely separate the penis A and the scrotum B from each other and simultaneously make the penis always face the hypogastric center under the navel while a wearer wears the underpants. The first bending section 210, the second bending section 230, and the third bending section 250 are cut and connected with each other by means of sewing. At this time, the cutting is made in such a manner that the first ending section 210, the second bending section 230 and the third bending section 250 can be symmetrical to each of the penis support member 120, the scrotum support member 130 and the rear member 140 with respect to the central line. In addition, the cutting is made in such a manner that the penis support member 120, the scrotum support member 130 and the rear member 140 can protrude compared to each of the upper and lower ends of the penis support member 120, the upper and lower ends of the scrotum support member 130, and the lower end of the rear member 140 such that the penis support member 120, the scrotum support member 130 and the rear member 140 can have predetermined curvatures to form a convex shape.
DDDR:: The first bending section 210, the second bending section 230, and the third bending section 250 will be described with reference to FIG. 3 in more detail.
DDDR:: The first bending section 210 is formed by, when an entirety of the penis support member 120 is divided into three segments along a horizontal axis, a first segment from the upper portion of the penis support member 120 being cut in a vertical direction so as to be narrower than the first curved portion 220 which occupies the remaining two segments of the penis support member 120 and has a predetermined curvature, and the first segment being connected with the upper end of the remaining two segments by sewing.
DDDR:: Further, the second bending section 230 is formed by being cut to have the first curved portion 220 which is connected to the first bending section 210 and has the predetermined curvature such that the remaining two segments of the segmented penis support member 120 form a parabola when being folded in half, and by being connected to an upper end of the scrotum support member 130 by means of sewing.
DDDR:: The third bending section 250 is formed by being cut to have a second curved portion 240 which is connected to the second bending section 230 and has a curvature that is larger than that of the first curved portion 220 of the penis support member 120, and by being connected to a lower end of the scrotum support member 130 and a lower end of the rear member 140 by means of sewing.
DDDR:: The connected part between the lower end of the penis support member 120 and the upper end of the scrotum support member 130, and the connected part between the lower end of the scrotum support member 130 and the lower end of the rear member 140 may have an identical length so that the penis A and the scrotum B can be completely and independently separated from each other due to contractile force applied to the penis support member 120 and the scrotum support member 130 by the first bending section 210, the second bending section 230 and the third bending section 250.
DDDR:: Meanwhile, referring to FIG. 3, the first curved portion 220 and the second curved portion 240 are functional means configured to generate a penis pocket 260 and a scrotum pocket 270, which will be described later, for surrounding the separated penis A and scrotum B and have predetermined curvatures. The curvature of the second curved portion 240 of the scrotum support member 130 is slightly larger than that of the first curved portion 220 of the penis support member 120 according to the characteristic of the scrotum.
DDDR:: Referring to FIG. 3, the penis pocket 260 and the scrotum pocket 270 are the means which support the independently separated penis A and are interoperated with a contraction of the scrotum B. Therefore, the penis pocket 260 and the scrotum pocket 270 prevent the penis A from leaning toward the left or right side or instantly descending toward the groin side again when a wearer strenuously exercises or moves significantly while wearing the underpants.
DDDR:: When the scrotum B is dropped due to contraction in accordance with personal physical changes according to the characteristic of the two testicles having different sizes by gravity, the scrotum pocket 270 is configured to fully surround the scrotum B so that the scrotum pocket 270 and the scrotum B can together inter-operate with each other.
DDDR:: An operation of the functional underpants for men according to the exemplary embodiment of the present invention will be described in more detail.
DDDR:: A uniquely conceived functional member 200, i.e. the penis support member 120 having the double structure, the scrotum support member 130 having the single structure, and the rear member 140, connected to the front portion of the underpants 100 includes the plurality of curved portions 220 and 240 having a predetermined curvature and the bending sections 210, 230, and 250 such that the penis pocket 260 and the scrotum pocket 270 are generated through sewing the curved portions and the sections. Here, the curved portion 240 of the scrotum support member 130 has a curvature slightly larger than the first curved portion 220 of the penis support member 120 according to the characteristic of the scrotum. Therefore, the functional underpants 100 allow the penis A and the scrotum B to be independently and completely separated from each other by the penis pocket 260 and the scrotum pocket 270 to sufficiently offer the air permeability to the sexual organs and prevent the penis A from leaning toward the left or right side or dropping by the penis pocket 260 as well. Further, when the scrotum is dropped due to contraction in accordance with personal physical changes according to the characteristic of the two testicles having different sizes by gravity, the scrotum pocket 270 simultaneously inter-operates in accordance with the dropping of the scrotum and fully surrounds the scrotum B, thereby further improving sexual health. Furthermore, the functional underpants 100 of the present invention do not use an expensive material or a specific band capable of creating an unpleasant feeling in contrast to that of the conventional art, so that it is possible to greatly reduce the manufacturing costs through decreasing the operation process.
DDDR:: The foregoing is merely an exemplary embodiment of the technical sprit of the present invention and it will be readily understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications and changes can be made thereto within the technical spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus, the exemplary embodiment disclosed in the present invention is not for limiting the technical sprit, but for describing it, and the present invention is not limited thereto. The protection scope of the present invention shall be interpreted by the appended claims and all of the technical sprit within its equivalent scope shall be understood to be included in the claims of the present invention.
DHDR:: INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
DDDR:: The present invention is related to the clothes industry, and more particularly to functional underpants for men including a penis pocket and a scrotum pocket for securing air permeability and improving sexual health.
CLI :: 1. Functional underpants for men for securing air permeability and improving sexual health, the functional underpants comprising: a penis support member (120) having a double structure comprising an outer cloth (101) and an inner cloth (102); a scrotum support member (130) having a single structure and being formed vertically under and connected to the penis support member; and a rear member (140) connected to a lower end of the scrotum support member (130) having the single structure, wherein the outer cloth (101) of the penis support member includes a first bending section (210) having a horizontal length and formed separately from and under a waistband of the functional underpants, a second bending section (230) having a horizontal length and formed under the first bending section, and a first curved portion (220) formed between the first and second bending sections (210, 230), the first curved portion (220) having a first curvature maximum horizontal length and the first curvature maximum horizontal length being longer than those of the first and second bending section horizontal lengths to thereby create a penis pocket (26) along with the inner cloth (102) of the penis support member; wherein the scrotum support member (130) includes the second bending section (230), a third bending section (250) having a horizontal length, and a second curved portion (240) formed between the second and third bending sections (230, 250), the second curved portion (240) having a second curvature maximum horizontal length and the second curvature maximum horizontal length being longer than those of the second and third bending section horizontal lengths to thereby form a scrotum pocket (270); wherein the penis support member (120) forms a first separate patch sewn to the functional underpants, and the scrotum support member (130) form a second separate patch sewn to the functional underpants; and wherein the first curvature maximum horizontal length is shorter than the second curvature maximum horizontal length, and the outer sewn edge of the first separate patch having a rectangular shape for substantially preventing a penis (A) from wobbling in the horizontal direction.
CLD :: 2. The functional underpants as claimed in claim 1, wherein the scrotum support member (130) is formed of a material in which a ratio of a yarn with 30 to 40 deniers with respect to spandex is 95:5.
CLD :: 3. The functional underpants as claimed in claim 1, wherein a connected part between the lower end of the penis support member (120) and the upper end of the scrotum support member (130), and a connected part between the lower end of the scrotum support member (130) and the lower end of the rear member (140) have an identical length so that penis A and scrotum B can be completely and independently separated from each other due to contractile force applied to the penis support member (120) and the scrotum support member (130) by the first bending section (210), the second bending section (230) and the third bending section (250).
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Air cushion for attaching headband of welding mask
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661570
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 13653736
APDT:: 20121017
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 503
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 503
INVS:: HUH MOON YOUNG
APLS:: OTOS WING CO., LTD.
LREP:: CANTOR COLBURN LLP
ASSE:: OTOS WING CO., LTD.
EXMR:: WORRELL DANNY
NCLS:: 7
NCLI:: 1
NCLD:: 6
NFIG:: 22
DSCL:: 2240
SUML:: 259
BKGL:: 370
DDRL:: 742
DDSL:: 1457
CLFL:: 186
CLIL:: 187
CLDL:: 39
NREF:: 33
NRFA:: 0
NRFX:: 33
IPCC:: A-A-42-B-3-12-F-I
USCC::   2418|  2421||  21818| 54 381|  2413|  2183|  2413|  2181|  2 68|  2413|267117|  2413|  2418|  2413|  2468|  2413|  2171|  21952|  2411|  2413|  2183|  21952|  2410|  21952|  2421|  2 12|  2455|  2455|  2413|  2458|132279|450 38|  2413|  2  25|  2410||  2411||  2413||  2414||  2417||  2418||  2421||  2416||  2DIG 3||  2DIG 11||  2181||  2183|
SFLD::   2410|  2411|  2413|  2414|  2417|  2418|  2421|  2416|  2DIG 3|  2DIG 11|  2181|  2183
RLDX:: XXX:20130111653:20130509
NRLD:: 1
NPRV:: 0
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: Disclosed is a headband with an air cushion pad, which is mounted on a welding mask, a working helmet, a safety mask or a protective mask. A plurality of air pockets is arranged at regular intervals or asymmetrical intervals within the air cushion pad mounted on the entirety or a part of the headband contacting the worker's head, a plurality of projections is formed on the front surface of the air cushion pad contacting the worker's head, the worker's forehead or the rear portion of the worker's head, and if the worker wears the headband, the amount of air filling air pockets is adjusted according to a shape of the worker's head or a pressing degree of the headband onto the worker's head so that the worker may firmly and comfortably wear the headband under the condition that the headband is completely adhered to the worker's head.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
DDBK:: 1. Field of the Invention
DDBK:: The present invention relates to a headband with an air cushion pad, and more particularly to a headband with an air cushion pad which is used on welding masks, working helmets, safety masks, protective masks or medical devices, contacts a worker's forehead or the outer circumferential surface of a worker's head, or the rear portion or the upper portion of the worker's head, and adjusts an amount of air filling air pockets according to a pressing degree of the air cushion pad onto the worker's head due to a shape of the worker's head so as to be firmly mounted on the worker's head and to be comfortably worn by the worker.
DDBK:: 2. Description of the Related Art
DDBK:: A headband is integrally fixed to the inside of one selected from welding masks, protective masks, safety helmets and medical devices so as to be stably worn by a worker. For example, a headband on a welding mask includes a holding piece surrounding the outer circumferential surface of a worker's head and having an adjustable diameter and a supporting piece located at the upper portion of the worker's head, and the holding piece and the supporting piece are configured such that the lengths thereof may be freely adjustable.
DDBK:: In such a conventional headband used in the welding mask, a sponge sheet absorbing sweat rolling down to the worker's face during work and providing comfortable wear feeling is integrally provided in front of the holding piece.
DDBK:: However, the headband used in the welding mask may be disadvantageous in that when the headband is frequently used, cushion force of the sponge sheet provided in front of the holding piece and contacting the worker's head is lowered, and if the worker wears the headband, the worker may not firmly and comfortably wear the headband under the condition that the headband is completely adhered to the worker's head, according to a head shape difference between workers or a pressing degree difference of the headband to workers.
DHSM:: SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
DDSM:: Therefore, the present invention has been made in view of the above problems, and it is an object of the present invention to provide a headband with an air cushion pad which adjusts an amount of air according to a shape of a worker's forehead or a pressing degree of the headband onto the worker's forehead, and is firmly and comfortably worn by the worker under the condition that the headband is completely adhered to the worker's forehead.
DDSM:: It is another object of the present invention to provide a headband with an air cushion pad which is firm enough to support a heavy welding mask on a wearer's head, and reduces pain and inconvenience of a wearer caused by pressing onto the wearer's head if work is carried out for a long time and leaning of the welding mask due to off-axis due to the weight of the welding mask.
DDSM:: In accordance with the present invention, the above and other objects can be accomplished by the provision of a headband with an air cushion pad mounted on a front part of the headband mounted on a welding mask, etc. contacting a worker's head or the entirety of the headband, wherein a plurality of air pockets is arranged at regular intervals or asymmetrical intervals within the air cushion pad, an upper fixing wing is connected to the upper end of the air cushion pad, and a lower fixing wing is connected to the lower end of the air cushion pad.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: The above and other objects, features and other advantages of the present invention will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is a view illustrating a state in which an air cushion pad in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is placed on a wearer's forehead;
DDDR:: FIG. 2 is a view illustrating a state in which the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention is placed on the upper portion of a wearer's head;
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is a cross-sectional view of the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 6 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional view of the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 8 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 9 is a cross-sectional view of the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 10 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 11 is a cross-sectional view of the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 12 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 13 is a cross-sectional view of the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 14 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 15 is a cross-sectional view of the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 16 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 17 is a cross-sectional view of the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 18 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 19 is a cross-sectional view of the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 20 is a perspective view of an air cushion pad in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 21 is a cross-sectional view of the air cushion pad in accordance with the embodiment of the present invention; and
DDDR:: FIG. 22 is a cross-sectional view of an air cushion pad on which an air pump is installed in accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
DDDD:: Now, preferred embodiments in accordance with the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the annexed drawings.
DDDD:: Hereinafter, a headband with an air cushion pad in accordance with each of the embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the accompanying drawings.
DDDD:: A headband 200 in accordance with the present invention includes an air cushion pad 10 which is mounted at the front portion of the headband 200 placed on a welding mask or a protective mask contacting a worker's head or is mounted on the entirety of the headband 200. A plurality of air pockets 30 is arranged at regular intervals or asymmetrical intervals within the air cushion pad 10, an upper fixing wing 20 is connected to the upper end of the air cushion pad 10, and a lower fixing wing 22 is connected to the lower end of the air cushion pad 10.
DDDD:: In the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention, the surface of the air cushion pad 10 may include a plurality of projections and through holes or have a plurality of embossings. Further, in the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention, an air pump 40 may be mounted on the air cushion pad 10.
DDDD:: With reference to FIG. 1, the air cushion pad 10 is mounted at the front portion of the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention contacting the worker's head, and a plurality of air pockets 30 is arranged at regular intervals or asymmetrical intervals within the air cushion pad 10.
DDDD:: With reference to FIG. 2, the air cushion pad 10 is mounted on the entirety or a part of the headband 200 contacting the worker's head.
DDDD:: As shown in FIGS. 1 to 22, the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention, the upper fixing wing 20 is connected to the upper end of the air cushion pad 10, and the lower fixing wing 22 is connected to the lower end of the air cushion pad 10, thereby causing the air cushion pad 10 to be easily mounted at the front portion of the headband 200.
DDDD:: As shown in FIGS. 1 to 22, if a worker wears the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention, the amount of air filling the air pockets 30 is adjusted according to a shape of the worker's head or a pressing degree of the headband 200 onto the worker's head, and thus the worker may conveniently use the headband 200.
DDDD:: In the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention, the air pockets 30 may be arranged at regular intervals or asymmetrical intervals within the air cushion pad 10 so that the worker may firmly and conveniently wear the headband 200 under the condition that the protrusions 12 formed on the front surface of the air cushion pad 10 contacting the worker's head are completely adhered to the worker's head.
DDDD:: As shown in FIGS. 2 to 9, the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention may include a plurality of projections 12, 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-4 or 12-5 formed on the front surface of the air cushion pad 10 contacting the worker's head or the worker's forehead, and a plurality of through holes 14, 14-1, 14-2 or 14-3 formed between the projections 12, 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-4 or 12-5.
DDDD:: As described above, the projections 12, 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-4 or 12-5 of the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention may be manufactured in various shapes, and may be manufactured in various tube types in which the through holes 14, 14-1, 14-2 or 14-3 are formed between the projections 12, 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-4 or 12-5.
DDDD:: As shown in FIGS. 10 to 20, the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention may include a plurality of projections 12, 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-4 or 12-5 formed on the front surface of the air cushion pad 10 contacting the worker's head, and a plurality of embossings 16 formed between the projections 12, 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-4 or 12-5. The projections 12, 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-4 or 12-5 of the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention may be manufactured in various shapes and the embossings 16 formed between the projections 12, 12-1, 12-2, 12-3, 12-4 or 12-5 may be manufactured in various shapes so as to prevent the headband 200 from slipping on the worker's head.
DDDD:: As shown in FIGS. 21 and 22, in the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention, an air pump 40 may be mounted on the air cushion pad 10, and, if an air bag 48 of the air pump 40 is filled with air, when a worker compresses the air bag 48 under the condition that the worker wears the headband 200, a first check valve 42 is closed and a second check valve 46 is opened, and thus air within the air bag 48 is sucked into the air pockets 30 of the air cushion pad 10 to expand the air pockets 30, and when the air pockets 30 are expanded, the projections 12 formed on the front surface of the air cushion pad 10 contacting the worker's forehead are completely adhered to the worker's forehead and thus the worker may firmly and comfortably wear the headband 200.
DDDD:: In case of the headband 200 in accordance with the present invention, air within the air cushion pad 10 freely moves and transfers according to a shape of a mask or helmet wearer's head, a wearing method of a mask or helmet and a structure of a functional product, and thus comfortableness and close adhesion are maximized.
DDDD:: In accordance with a further embodiment of the present invention, the air cushion pad 10 is mounted on the entirety or a part of the headband 200 contacting the worker's head, and is further mounted on an upper fixing band 300. Thereby, air within the air pockets 12 freely moves and transfers according to a shape of a mask or helmet wearer's head, a wearing method of a mask or helmet and a structure of a functional product, and thus comfortableness and close adhesion are maximized.
DDDD:: As apparent from the above description, the present invention provides a headband with an air cushion pad which minimizes weight feeling and pressure applied to a worker's head generated by wearing a welding helmet or a welding mask for a long time.
DDDD:: Further, the headband in accordance with the present invention adjusts the amount of air filling air pockets of the air cushion pad according to a shape of the worker's head or a pressing degree of the headband onto the worker's head, and thus the worker may firmly and comfortably wear the headband under the condition that the headband is completely adhered to the worker's head.
DDDD:: Although the preferred embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed for illustrative purposes, those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modifications, additions and substitutions are possible, without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention as disclosed in the accompanying claims.
CLI :: 1. A headband with an air cushion pad, which is mounted on a welding mask, a working helmet, a safety mask, a protective mask or a medical device and which a worker wears on his/her head, wherein the air cushion pad is mounted on a front part of the headband contacting the worker's forehead, the entirety of the headband contacting the worker's forehead and the rear portion of the worker's head, or another part of the headband, and a plurality of air pockets is arranged at regular intervals or asymmetrical intervals within the air cushion pad, wherein an amount of air filling the air pockets is adjusted according to a shape of the worker's head, wherein an air pump is provided on a side surface of the air cushion pad so as to allow the worker to directly pump air by hand, wherein the air pump includes an air bag, a first check valve, and a second check valve, wherein the first check valve is configured to close and the second check valve is configured to open based on compression of the air bag while the worker is wearing the headband in order for air within the air bag is sucked into the air pockets.
CLD :: 2. The headband of claim 1, wherein the air cushion pad includes a plurality of projections on the surface thereof, wherein the plurality of projections are arranged to form a plurality of columns and a plurality of rows.
CLD :: 3. The headband of claim 1, wherein the air cushion pad includes a plurality of projections on the surface thereof, wherein the air cushion pad is a tube provided with a plurality of through holes formed between the projections.
CLD :: 4. The headband of claim 1, wherein an upper fixing wing and a lower fixing wing are detachably adhered to each other.
CLD :: 5. The headband of claim 1, wherein the amount of air filling the air pockets is adjusted according to a pressing degree of the headband onto the worker's head.
CLD :: 6. The headband of claim 1, wherein the air cushion pad includes a plurality of projections on the surface thereof, wherein the air cushion pad further includes a plurality of embossings formed between the projections.
CLD :: 7. The headband of claim 1, wherein the air pockets are configured in a manner that allows air in the air pockets to move and transfer freely according to a shape of the worker's head.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Helmet mounting systems
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661571
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 12117704
APDT:: 20080508
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 2126
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 3802
INVS:: TEETZEL JAMES W.|LEMIRE GARY M.
APLS:: TEETZEL JAMES W.|LEMIRE GARY M.
LREP:: MCLANE, GRAF, RAULERSON & MIDDLETON, PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATION
ASSE:: WILCOX INDUSTRIES CORP.
EXMR:: HUYNH KHOA|KINSAUL ANNA
NCLS:: 15
NCLI:: 2
NCLD:: 13
NFIG:: 10
DSCL:: 2129
SUML:: 0
BKGL:: 40
DDRL:: 280
DDSL:: 2130
CLFL:: 326
CLIL:: 327
CLDL:: 322
NREF:: 31
NRFA:: 16
NRFX:: 15
IPCC:: A-A-42-B-1-24-F-I
USCC::   2422||410105|  2424|  2 10|359362|  2  62|  2  62|  2  62| 63 291|244121|  2422| 24  31|351156|  2  62|  2  62|351155| 245801|| 245901|| 24DIG 53|| 24DIG 60|| 24265 CD|| 24265 R||403348||403350||403353|
SFLD::  245801| 245901| 24DIG 53| 24DIG 60| 24265 CD| 24265 R|403348|403350|403353
RLDX:: CIP:11804813:20070521:12117704|DIV:10959906:20041006:11804813|PRV:60928239:20070508|PRV:60509136:20031006
NRLD:: 4
NPRV:: 2
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: Pivoting helmet mounts for an optical device are provided. In one aspect, a bayonet mount is provided for removably attaching a bayonet mounting base to a flush-mounting bracket on the helmet. Optionally, a lanyard for securing the optical device to the helmet is provided. In further aspects, the bayonet mount is omitted and the helmet mount is secured directly to the flush mount bracket.
DHXX:: CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
DDXX:: This application claims the priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. Sec. 119(e) of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60/928,239 filed May 8, 2007.
DDXX:: This application also claims priority, as a continuation-in-part type application, under 35 U.S.C. Sec. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/804,813, May 21, 2007, now pending, which is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/959,906 filed Oct. 6, 2004, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,129,370, which is a nonprovisional application of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60/509,136 filed Oct. 6, 2003.
DDXX:: Each of the aforementioned applications is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND
DDBK:: The present disclosure relates to improved systems for mounting an optical device, such as a night vision goggle, to a field helmet.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: The invention may take form in various components and arrangements of components, and in various steps and arrangements of steps. The drawings are only for purposes of illustrating preferred embodiments and are not to be construed as limiting the invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is an isometric view taken from the front and side of a helmet carrying an optical device using a helmet mount system according to a first exemplary embodiment.
DDDR:: FIGS. 2 and 3 are exploded and partially exploded views, respectively, of the mounting base appearing in FIG. 1.
DDDR:: FIGS. 4A, 4B, and 4C are isometric views illustrating the manner of attachment of the bayonet breakaway base to the helmet mounting base.
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is an isometric view of a second embodiment mounting assembly.
DDDR:: FIG. 6 is an exploded view of a third embodiment mounting assembly.
DDDR:: FIG. 7 is an isometric view of the flush mount bracket of FIG. 1 with optional lanyard.
DDDR:: FIG. 8 is a cross-sectional view taken along the lines 8-8 in FIG. 7.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
DDDD:: Referring now to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to like or analogous components throughout the several views, and with particular reference to FIGS. 1-4C, there appears a first exemplary helmet mounting system embodiment 600. The helmet mounting system 600 is removably attached at a first end to a bracket 604 and at a second end to an optical device 116. The present invention is shown with an monocular night vision goggle, e.g., employing a single image intensifier tube and associated optics, for ease of exposition, however, it will be understood that the invention can be used with other types of sighting devices, such as a monocular or binoculars, helmet mounted display screens, head-up display or any other helmet mounted optical, electro-optical, and/or viewing devices.
DDDD:: The bracket 604 is attached to the front portion of a helmet 108. The exemplary bracket 604 is flush-mounted to the helmet 108 to reduce the tendency of the bracket to snag as compared to mounting systems employing a bracket which is offset from the exterior surface of the helmet. For purposes of this application, "flush" means that the helmet-contacting peripheral edge 603 of the bracket 604 is substantially continuous or gap-free. Thus, the system 600 may advantageously be employed by parachutists or in environments wherein the mounting system may be subject to snagging. The bracket 604 may be formed of a molded plastic or other material. The bracket 604 is secured to the helmet 108 via mating threaded fasteners 605a and 605b. A pad 607 formed of rubber or other non-slip or slip-resistant material may be provided between the bracket 604 and the helmet 108 to provide increased frictional engagement between the flush mount bracket 604 and the surface of helmet 108, e.g., to prevent rotational slippage of the bracket 604.
DDDD:: The bracket 604 includes a recess or cavity 633 having an upstanding boss 635 for receiving the fastener 605a and a tapered guide post assembly 637 for mating with an aligned opening 641 formed on male bayonet member 639. The tapered guidepost assembly 637 includes a base 643 having an upstanding boss 645 thereon. A compression O-ring 647 is received about the boss 645 and is trapped between the base 643 and a guidepost insert 649. A threaded fastener 651 rotatably engages the boss 645 to secure the insert 649 to the base 643.
DDDD:: A bayonet mount base 620 includes the male bayonet member 639 on the rearward facing surface thereof. The male bayonet member 639 may be a breakaway mount base and may incorporate a breakaway mechanism which provides an interface between a pivot arm assembly 176 and a breakaway base 620. The breakaway mechanism described in the aforementioned commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 7,219,370 incorporated herein by reference. As best seen in FIGS. 4A-4C, in operation, the male bayonet member 639 is aligned with and inserted into the opening 667. The bayonet mount base 620 is then rotated 90 degrees until one of the ears 659 is aligned and received within the recess 657. To remove the mount base 620 from the bracket 604, the lever arm 663 is depressed and the process is reversed.
DDDD:: A bayonet lock 653 is pivotally received within the cavity 633 and pivots about a pivot post 655. The bayonet lock 653 includes a profile defining a recess 657 sized to receive and engage one of the male bayonet ears 659 formed on the male bayonet member 639 when the male bayonet member is in the secured and locked position. A spring 661 urges the bayonet lock toward the locked position. Depressing a lever arm 663 against the urging of the spring 661 disengages the recess 657 from the bayonet ear 659, allowing removal of the bayonet member 639. A female bayonet plate 665 includes a keyed opening 667 adapted to receive the male bayonet member 639 therethrough and a corresponding aligned opening 669 for receiving the threaded fastener 605a. Openings 671 receive threaded fasteners 673a for engaging aligned openings 675 in the base of the cavity 633 and fasteners 673b for securing the bayonet plate 665 thereover.
DDDD:: The pivot arm assembly 176 is secured to the breakaway base 620 in breakaway fashion. The connection between the breakaway assembly 620 and the pivot arm assembly 176 may be selectively configured as a breakaway connection or a rigid attachment by moving lever 180. Breakaway base 620 includes a housing member (not shown) and a cam (not shown), which is manually rotatable via lever 180. When lever 180 is in a non-breakaway position the cam member has been rotated to a locked position to secure the pivot arm assembly 176 to the breakaway base 620. When the cam member has been rotated to an unlocked position the pivot arm assembly 176 can be separated from the breakaway base 620 with the application of a sufficient force. The breakaway setting is advantageous in that it may prevent injury to the wearer in the event the wearer becomes entangled or the optical device 116 impacts a foreign object. Likewise, the non-breakaway setting may advantageously be selected in instances where it is desired to prevent inadvertent dislodging of the optical device 116 from the helmet, e.g., where loss of the optical device 116 is possible or where the wearer may be subject to high accelerational or G forces. The breakaway connector may be of a type described in commonly owned U.S. Pat. No. 7,219,370.
DDDD:: A pivot arm 192 is pivotally attached to the pivot arm assembly 176 for pivotally moving the optical device 116 between an operational position in front of the user's eyes (see FIG. 1) and a stowed position out of the user's line of vision. Slide rails 232 on the pivot arm 192 provide user-adjustable fore and aft positioning of the optical device 116 via selective positioning of carriage member 236. When optical device 116 is in an operational position, the slide rails 232 extend out horizontally from pivot arm 192. Unless otherwise indicated, all directional or positional terms used herein, such as "horizontal," "vertical," "front," "rear," etc., and variations thereof refer to a direction or orientation relative to the helmet as viewed in FIG. 1 or when worn by a user. When slide rails 232 are in a horizontal position carriage member 236 is movable along the slide rails 232 enabling the user to horizontally position the optical device 116 at a comfortable or desired focal distance from the operator's eyes.
DDDD:: At least one of the slide rails 232 (both in the depicted embodiment) contain a series of locking teeth 240 along its length for engaging an internal locking member (not shown) such as a toothed member, pin, or the like, to provide secure retention at a selected position. Release button 244, biased toward the locked position, may be manually depressed to disengage the locking members to allow sliding movement of the carriage member 236 until the optical device 116 is positioned at a desired focal position in front of the user's eye(s). The carriage member may be of the type detailed in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 7,219,370.
DDDD:: Referring now to FIGS. 4A-4C, the bayonet mount base 620 includes a sliding plate 652, which slides horizontally with respect to the bayonet mount base 620 when actuator button 156 is depressed. In this manner, the optical device 116 is selectively positionable to provide a vertical adjustment of the optical device relative to the eyes of a wearer. The vertical adjustment mechanism may be as described in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 7,219,370. Likewise an angle or tilt adjustment knob 184 may be loosened to allow adjustment of the optics to a desired tilt angle according to user's eye position and a desired line of sight, whereby the desired tilt angle may then be secured in the desired position by tightening the knob 184. The knob 184 includes a threaded rod (not shown) rotatably engaging a mating threaded opening in pivot arm assembly 176. The pivot arm assembly 176 rotates relative to plate 188, which includes an elongated or curvate opening or slot (not shown) for receiving the threaded rod. The angle or tilt adjustment knob may be as described in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 7,219,370.
DDDD:: Referring now to FIG. 5, there appears an alternative helmet mount system embodiment 700, which may be as described above by way of reference to the embodiment 600, except that the bracket 704 is configured to be attached to the helmet 108 via three threaded fasteners (not shown) extending through openings 705 in the helmet and engaging the bracket 704.
DDDD:: Referring now to FIG. 6, there is shown another alternative embodiment, which is similar to the embodiment of FIG. 5, but wherein the bayonet mount is omitted and a sliding plate 152 is attached to the bracket 804 via a plurality of threaded fasteners, e.g., 806, 808, and 810. In still another embodiment (not shown), the embodiment of FIGS. 1-4 is modified to eliminate the bayonet interface and wherein the sliding plate 152 is permanently attached to a suitably modified bayonet mount base 620 in the same manner as shown in FIG. 6.
DDDD:: Referring now to FIGS. 1-4C and 7-8, there is shown an optional lanyard 609 which may be secured to the bracket via an optional lanyard interface on the bracket 604. While the lanyard and lanyard interface are optional, the use of a lanyard may be advantageous in preventing damage to the optics 116 in the event it becomes disengaged from the helmet.
DDDD:: In the exemplary illustrated embodiments of FIGS. 1-4C and FIGS. 7 and 8, the lanyard interface includes a lanyard interface ring 611 (female lanyard interface member) received through an opening 613 in the bracket 604 and received therein via a retainer ring 615. The lanyard 609 includes a housing 617 having a retractable cord or strap 619. The free end of the cord 619 has a clip or similar fastener 621 for engaging a loop 623, which may be formed on or secured to the optical device 116. The housing 617 includes a male lanyard interface member 625 rotatably and removably engaging the ring 611. While an exemplary lanyard fastening system is illustrated in FIGS. 7 and 8, it will be recognized that other types of snap fit or quick connect and disconnect fasteners may be employed as well.
DDDD:: The invention has been described with reference to the preferred embodiments. Modifications and alterations will occur to others upon a reading and understanding of the preceding detailed description. Therefore, it is not desired to limit the invention to the specific examples disclosed or the exact construction and operation shown and described. Rather, all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to, falling within the scope of the invention.
CLI :: 1. A helmet mount for an optical device, comprising: a mounting bracket for attaching said helmet mount to a front portion of a helmet; a mounting base intermediate said mounting bracket and a pivot arm assembly, said mounting base removably and vertically slidably attachable to said bracket for adjusting a vertical position of the optical device relative to a user's eyes; said pivot arm assembly having a pivot arm coupled to said mounting base and one or more slide rails pivotally coupled to said pivot arm; said one or more slide rails pivotal between a first, operational position for positioning the optical device in front of the user's eyes and a second, stowed position for positioning the optical device above the user's line of sight; said one or more slide rails extending generally horizontally when the pivot arm is in said first, operational position; a carriage member slidable along said one or more slide rails and adapted to carry the optical device, said carriage member for adjusting a horizontal position of the optical device in front of the user's eyes; a lanyard assembly secured to said mounting bracket, said lanyard assembly including a lanyard housing, a retractable cord having an attached end secured inside said lanyard housing and a free end, a fastener on said free end for removably connecting the retractable cord to the optical device, and a cord retraction mechanism for storing said retractable cord inside said housing when not in use; said lanyard assembly including a female lanyard interface member received within an opening defined in said mounting bracket and defining a cavity; and said lanyard housing including a male lanyard interface member removably and rotatably received within the cavity defined by the female lanyard interface member; where the female lanyard interface member is a separately formed piece and the male lanyard interface and female lanyard interface members have a snap fit connection.
CLD :: 2. The helmet mount of claim 1, wherein said mounting bracket comprises: a female bayonet plate having a keyed opening for receiving a complimentary male bayonet member on said mounting base; a guide post within said keyed opening for removably engaging a complimentary opening in said male bayonet member; and a lock for releasably locking said mounting base to said mounting bracket.
CLD :: 3. The helmet mount of claim 2, further comprising: a threaded fastener for securing said mounting bracket to said helmet; and a mounting boss on said mounting bracket for receiving said threaded fastener.
CLD :: 4. The helmet mount of claim 1, further comprising: a friction pad disposed between said mounting bracket and said helmet.
CLD :: 5. The helmet mount of claim 1, wherein said mounting base comprises: a male bayonet member on a rearward facing surface of said mounting base for mating with said mounting bracket; a sliding plate slidably connected to said mounting base for adjusting the vertical position of the optical device relative to a user's eyes; an opening on said male bayonet member for removably receiving a complimentary protrusion on said mounting bracket; and a locking mechanism on said mounting base for selectively adjusting the vertical position of said sliding plate relative to said mounting base.
CLD :: 6. The helmet mount of claim 1, further comprising: said male lanyard interface member having an annular groove and a ring received within said annular groove, said ring received within said cavity when the male lanyard interface member is received within the cavity defined by the female interface member.
CLD :: 7. The helmet mount of claim 1, wherein the mounting bracket is fastened to the helmet via one or more threaded fasteners.
CLD :: 8. The helmet mount of claim 1, wherein said mounting base is attached to said mounting bracket via one or more threaded fasteners.
CLD :: 9. The helmet mount of claim 1, wherein said pivot arm assembly includes a tilt adjustment knob for adjusting a tilt position of the optical device relative to a user's eyes.
CLD :: 10. The helmet mount of claim 1, further comprising: a breakaway connector for securing said pivot arm to said mounting base, said breakaway connector configured to release upon application of a predetermined force.
CLD :: 11. The helmet mount of claim 1, further comprising: a connector for securing said mounting base to said pivot arm assembly, said connector selectively configurable between a breakaway configuration and a nonbreakaway configuration.
CLD :: 12. The helmet mount of claim 1, wherein said mounting bracket includes a contacting edge configured to provide a flush-mount attachment to the helmet.
CLD :: 13. The helmet mount of claim 1, further comprising: a quick connect and disconnect mechanism for removably attaching said mounting base to said mounting bracket.
CLD :: 14. The helmet mount of claim 13, wherein said quick connect and disconnect mechanism is a bayonet mechanism.
CLI :: 15. A helmet mount for an optical device, comprising: a mounting bracket for attaching said helmet mount to a front portion of a helmet; a mounting base intermediate said mounting bracket and a pivot arm assembly, said mounting base attached to said bracket for adjusting a vertical position of the optical device relative to a user's eyes; said pivot arm assembly having a pivot arm coupled to said mounting base and one or more slide rails pivotally coupled to said pivot arm; said one or more slide rails pivotal between a first, operational position for positioning the optical device in front of the user's eyes and a second, stowed position for positioning the optical device above the user's line of sight; said one or more slide rails extending generally horizontally when the pivot arm is in said first, operational position; a carriage member slidable along said one or more slide rails and adapted to carry the optical device, said carriage member for adjusting a horizontal position of the optical device in front of the user's eyes; a lanyard assembly secured to said mounting bracket, said lanyard assembly including a lanyard housing, a retractable cord having an attached end secured inside said lanyard housing and a free end, a fastener on said free end for removably connecting the retractable cord to the optical device, and a cord retraction mechanism for storing said retractable cord inside said housing when not in use; said lanyard assembly including a female lanyard interface member received within an opening defined in said mounting bracket and defining a cavity; and said lanyard housing including a male lanyard interface member removably and rotatably received within the cavity defined by the female lanyard interface member; where the female lanyard interface member is a separately formed piece and the male lanyard interface and female lanyard interface members have a snap fit connection.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Helmet edge band
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661572
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 12205323
APDT:: 20080905
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 2006
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 2371
INVS:: ROGERS DAVID CHARLES
APLS:: ROGERS DAVID CHARLES
LREP:: MORGAN, LEWIS & BOCKIUS LLP
ASSE:: ARTISENT, LLC
EXMR:: HALE GLORIA
NCLS:: 11
NCLI:: 1
NCLD:: 10
NFIG:: 7
DSCL:: 4459
SUML:: 864
BKGL:: 426
DDRL:: 3585
DDSL:: 0
CLFL:: 94
CLIL:: 95
CLDL:: 38
NREF:: 87
NRFA:: 55
NRFX:: 32
IPCC:: A-A-42-B-3-00-F-I|A-A-42-B-3-12-L-I
USCC::   2425|  2410||156211|12820127|  2423|  2  25|  2410|  2414|264135|  2414| 523092|  2410|428101|  2412|  2  5|  2  9|  2  83|  2  83|  2  25|428106| 89 3602|  2412| 89 3602|  2  67|156 93|428192|264138|  2  5|220586|428 363|  2  1||  2455||  2  25||  2410||  2  5||  2  61||  2  62||  2  66||  2  67||  2  68||  2  7||  2421||  2422||  2425||  2468||  2171||  220913|| 89 3605|
SFLD::   2  1|  2455|  2  25|  2410|  2  5|  2  61|  2  62|  2  66|  2  67|  2  68|  2  7|  2421|  2422|  2425|  2468|  2171|  220913| 89 3605
RLDX:: PRV:60967939:20070906|XXX:20090064386:20090312
NRLD:: 2
NPRV:: 1
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: An improved edge band for a protective helmet includes a flexible woven-fiber elongate band applied to the edge of a helmet shell. The elongate band is positioned such that side edges of the elongate band extend in intimately conforming contact along a surface contour of the helmet shell. The edge band includes a matrix material in contact with fibers of the elongate band.
DHXX:: CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
DDXX:: This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. provisional patent Application No. 60/967,939, filed Sep. 6, 2007, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
DHXX:: TECHNICAL FIELD
DDXX:: In various embodiments, the invention relates to safety helmets, and more particularly to an improved edge band for the perimeter of a helmet shell.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND
DDBK:: Helmets used to provide head protection may be worn in a variety of environments and for a variety of purposes, such as for protection against ballistic threats. Helmets that protect against ballistic threats may be formed from layers of woven or linear fibrous materials that are combined with a matrix material and formed into a hemispherical shape. The matrix material bonds with the fibrous materials to form a rigid outer shell for the helmet. Either as part of the forming operation, or once the forming is complete, the excess material on the edge of the helmet is typically trimmed to provide the final shape of the helmet, and an edge band is applied to finish and protect the exposed fibers along the edge of the helmet. The final trimmed shell is usually fitted with liner and retention components to secure the helmet to the wearer's head by means of a flexible chin strap.
DDBK:: The edge band is typically channel shaped and made of a conformal material (e.g. rubber) which is flexible enough to be wrapped around the edge of the helmet when applied by hand using an adhesive to bond it in place. The flexible material of the edge band seals and protects the fibers on the edge of the helmet, preventing entry of moisture or other hazards which might degrade the materials. However, this edge band is not a structural element and does not provide additional strength and/or rigidity to the helmet or improve the ballistic performance of the helmet.
DDBK:: Recent advances in technology resulting from new fiber and matrix materials, as well as new processing techniques, may provide greater performance against ballistic threats, for example by providing the same level of protection at a lighter weight, or providing an increased level of protection at the same weight. This improved performance is partly due to the increased strength of the composite recipe, which can withstand more energy before breaking than previously utilized materials. This results, at least in part, from the ability of these composites to stretch without allowing threats to penetrate and pass through. However, this inherent flexibility is disadvantageous to other performance requirements of the helmet that require a more rigid structure, for example to reduce backface deformation of the shell when struck by ballistic threats, and to dissipate blunt trauma impacts over a larger surface area and provide protection from crushing loads.
DHSM:: SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
DDSM:: In various embodiments, the present invention relates to improved edge bands for protecting the edge of a ballistic helmet, and methods for manufacturing improved helmets. Various embodiments of the invention can include an edge band for ballistic helmets that provides stiffness to a helmet shell, such as helmet shells made of composite materials, or at least an edge thereof, which without additional stiffening materials would be unacceptably deformable.
DDSM:: One aspect of the invention includes an edge band for a safety helmet. The edge band includes a flexible woven-fiber elongate band and a matrix material in contact with the fibers of the elongate band. The elongate band intimately conforms to a surface contour of an exposed edge of the safety helmet.
DDSM:: In one embodiment, the matrix material is bonded to, woven into, or embedded within the flexible woven-fiber elongate band. The matrix material may be activated:ux2014;i.e. rigidified:ux2014;by methods including, but not limited to, applying heat, applying a catalyst, or curing the matrix material. In one embodiment, the matrix material bonds the elongate band to the exposed edge of the safety helmet.
DDSM:: The matrix material may include, but is not limited to, an epoxy resin, a polyurethane resin, an unsaturated polyester resin, a thermoset material, or a thermoplastic material. The thermoplastic material may include, for example, polyethylene, polypropylene, nylon, propylene copolymers and other olefin polymers and copolymers. In one embodiment, the flexible elongate band is of the form of a tubular sleeve or a woven strap without frayed edges. The tubular sleeve may include a plurality of carbon fibers extending substantially along an elongate axis thereof. The width of the elongate band may be greater than the thickness of an exposed edge of a helmet shell to which it is to be applied.
DDSM:: Another aspect of the invention includes a safety helmet, such as a ballistic safety helmet, including a helmet shell and an edge band. The edge band includes a flexible woven-fiber elongate band and a matrix material in contact with fibers of the elongate band, wherein an inner edge of the elongate band intimately conforms to and extends upwards along an inner surface contour of the helmet shell and an outer edge of the elongate band intimately conforms to and extends upwards along an outer surface contour of the helmet shell.
DDSM:: In one embodiment, the matrix material is rigidified so as to hold the elongate band in intimately conforming contact with the inner and outer surface contours of the helmet shell when activated. The matrix material may be activated, for example, by applying heat, applying a catalyst, or curing the matrix material. A first distal end of the edge band may overlap with, or abut against, a second distal end of the edge band.
DDSM:: Another aspect of the invention includes a method of providing structural support for a helmet shell. The method includes providing a helmet shell, a flexible woven-fiber elongate band, and a matrix material in contact with the elongate band. The elongate band is positioned over and in intimate conforming contact with an exposed edge of the helmet shell such that an inner edge of the elongate band extends upwards along an inner surface contour of the helmet shell and an outer edge of the elongate band extends upwards along an outer surface contour of the helmet shell. The elongate band may be held in place while the matrix material is activated (i.e. changed from a flexible to a rigid state), thereby rigidly holding the elongate band in intimate conforming contact with the helmet shell.
DDSM:: The matrix material may be a substantially similar material to a matrix material used in fabricating the helmet shell. The flexible woven-fiber elongate band may be a flexible tubular sleeve and/or a woven strap. The tubular sleeve may include a plurality of woven fibers (e.g. woven carbon fibers) extending substantially along an elongate axis of the tubular sleeve. The matrix material may include a thermoplastic fiber woven together with the carbon fibers of the elongate band. In one embodiment, the matrix material is contacted with the elongate band prior to positioning the elongate band over the exposed edge of the helmet shell. In an alternative embodiment, the matrix material is contacted with the elongate band after positioning the elongate band over the exposed edge of the helmet shell.
DDSM:: These and other objects, along with advantages and features of the present invention herein disclosed, will become more apparent through reference to the following description, the accompanying drawings, and the claims. Furthermore, it is to be understood that the features of the various embodiments described herein are not mutually exclusive and can exist in various combinations and permutations.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: In the drawings, like reference characters generally refer to the same parts throughout the different views. Also, the drawings are not necessarily to scale, emphasis instead generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention. In the following description, various embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to the following drawings, in which:
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is a perspective view of a section of carbon fiber biaxial sleeve material for use as an edge band for a ballistic helmet, in accordance with one embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 2a is a schematic perspective view of the carbon fiber biaxial sleeve material of FIG. 1 being applied to the edge of a ballistic helmet shell, in accordance with one embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 2b is a schematic perspective view of the carbon fiber biaxial sleeve material of FIG. 2a after application to the edge of the ballistic helmet shell;
DDDR:: FIG. 2c is a schematic perspective view of a prior art molded or pre-fabricated edge band affixed to the edge of a ballistic helmet shell;
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is another schematic perspective view of the carbon fiber biaxial sleeve material of FIG. 1 being applied to the edge of a ballistic helmet shell;
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is a perspective view of a ballistic helmet shell including a carbon fiber biaxial sleeve edge band, in accordance with one embodiment of the invention; and
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is a perspective view of the ballistic helmet shell and edge band of FIG. 4 when worn by a user.
DHDR:: DESCRIPTION
DDDR:: In general, embodiments of the present invention relate to safety helmets, such as, but not limited to, ballistic safety helmets. Ballistic helmets are made of materials such as, but not limited to, Kevlar, that have excellent bullet and fragmentation stopping power. Helmets in accordance with various embodiments of the invention may also protect the wearer from non-ballistic injuries, such as flying debris, blunt impact, motor vehicle accidents, or falls.
DDDR:: Embodiments of the invention include an improved edge band for a protective helmet including a flexible woven elongate band of, e.g., a carbon fiber material. The elongate band is applied to the edge of a helmet shell along with a matrix material in contact with fibers of the elongate band. In one embodiment, the elongate band is a hollow, flexible, woven tubular sleeve folded along the elongate axis to provide a band including two layers of material and side edges free from any frayed material or fiber ends. In an alternative embodiment, the elongate band is a flexible strap that is woven to ensure that the side edges are free from any frayed material or fiber ends.
DDDR:: In one embodiment, the elongate band is positioned over the exposed edge of the helmet shell such that the side edges extend upwards on both the inside and the outside of the shell in intimate conformal contact with the contoured inner and outer sides of the helmet shell. The woven fibers of the elongate band may be contacted with a matrix material, such as an epoxy resin, and held in contact with the exposed edge throughout the full perimeter of the helmet shell while the matrix material transitions to a rigid state. In some embodiments, the matrix material for the edge band is the same matrix material used in fabricating the helmet shell.
DDDR:: In one embodiment of the invention, the matrix material is in the form of a fibrous material interwoven with the elongate band. In an alternative embodiment, the matrix material is a liquid that is applied to, and saturated into, the elongate band. In still another alternative embodiment, the matrix material is a liquid or solid material coated onto the elongate band either prior to, or after, application of the elongate band to the edge of the helmet shell. The matrix material may bond the elongate band to the helmet shell. Alternatively, the matrix material may be activated while holding the elongate band against the helmet shell to produce an edge band which is rigidly held in intimately conforming contact with the helmet shell, with or without actually bonding the surface of the elongate band directly to the helmet shell.
DDDR:: The matrix material may be activated (i.e. caused to transition from a flexible to a rigid state to hold the elongate band rigidly against the edge of the helmet shell) by methods including, but not limited to, applying heat, applying cooling, applying a catalyst, and/or curing the matrix material, depending upon the specific material(s) used. The matrix material may or may not exhibit adhesive properties, depending upon the particular application.
DDDR:: In one embodiment, the matrix material changes from a flexible to rigid state to bond with the structural fibers of the elongate band and, in some embodiments, bond the elongate band to the edge of the helmet. Suitable matrix materials include, but are not limited to, epoxy resins, polyurethane resins, polyethylenes, polypropylenes and other olefin polymers and copolymers, an unsaturated polyester resin, a thermoset material, or a thermoplastic material. The matrix material may be a dual or multi-component adhesive consisting of two or more resins or a resin and a hardener, crosslinker, activator or catalyst that when combined react and cure into a polymerized compound or bond. The matrix material may alternatively be a thermoset material that changes from a flexible to rigid state upon application of heat or heat and pressure.
DDDR:: In one embodiment, the matrix material is impregnated into the fibers of the elongate band in a liquid state and then cured to bond the fibers together and hold the elongate band against the helmet edge in intimate conforming contact (with or without adhesion to the helmet edge). Alternatively the matrix material may be a thermoplastic that becomes pliable when heated and rigid once cooled. The thermoplastic matrix materials may take the form of fibers integrally woven together with the structural fiber of the elongate band, or a powder that is applied to (e.g. coated onto or injected into) the elongate band. After being positioned on the edge of the helmet shell, the combination of structural fiber and thermoplastic matrix in the elongate band may be heated to melt the matrix material. The thermoplastic also may be applied as a molten liquid injected into a mold containing the elongate band and helmet in a process referred to as "co-molding."
DDDR:: An exemplary edge band, including an elongate band 51 formed from a carbon-fiber biaxial sleeve, is shown in FIG. 1. The biaxial fiber sleeve consists of fiber woven or knitted at an angle relative to the axis of the sleeve (such as, but not limited to, 45 degrees). Suitable carbon-fiber biaxial materials, as well as other appropriate braided fabric materials useful in connection with the invention, are available from A&P Technology, Inc., of 4595 East Tech Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio under the trade name Gammasox:ux2122;. The braided fabric may be substantially similar to that often conventionally used to cover cylindrical components. The carbon fibers 53 are woven into a tubular shape such that the fiber ends are only exposed at the opening 56 at the distal ends of the elongate band 51.
DDDR:: FIG. 2a shows a piece of elongate band 51 being positioned over the edge 59 of a ballistic helmet shell 60. The elongate band 51 is folded over and formed into an open channel 65 which is placed over the edge 59 of the helmet shell 60. The inner side edge 68 of the elongate band 51 is placed in intimately conforming contact with the curved contour of the inner wall 62 of the shell 60, while the outer side edge 71 of the elongate band 51 is placed in intimately conforming contact with the curved contour of the outer wall 63 of the shell 60.
DDDR:: FIG. 2b shows the elongate band 51 after placement thereof on the edge 59 of the ballistic helmet shell 60. After placement, and after holding the elongate band 51 in position until the matrix material (e.g. epoxy resin) has cured, the elongate band 51 intimately conforms to the surface contour of the edge of the helmet shell 60 along both its inner and outer sides and over the shell edge itself. The inner edge 68 of the elongate band 51 intimately conforms to the concave curved inside wall 62 of the helmet shell 60. Similarly, the outer edge 71 of the elongate band 51 intimately conforms to the convex curve of the outside wall 63 of the shell 60. This intimate conformal contact secures the elongate band 51 to the edge of the helmet shell 60, thereby strengthening and protecting the helmet edge 59.
DDDR:: In contrast, prior art methods of providing an edge band for a helmet shell fail to intimately conform to the shell edge. An exemplary prior art molded edge band 51' is shown in FIG. 2c. Here, the side walls of the edge band 51' are parallel or slightly drafted outward, e.g., as a result of the molding operation. As a result, upon placement onto the helmet shell 60, an internal gap 73 is created by the curvature of the inside wall 62 of the helmet shell 60 and the straight side-wall of the edge band 51'. Similarly a space 72 remains between the edge band 51' and the outside of the helmet shell 60. This space 72 may be filled with an adhesive, but the result may still be a relatively weak physical structure that provides limited structural support to the helmet edge 59. The pre-molded edge band 51' also produces a step between the helmet and edge band surfaces that may leave the edge band 51' undesirably exposed to damage, while also impairing the aesthetics of the helmet.
DDDR:: FIG. 3 shows the elongate band 51 being applied to the edge 59 of a ballistic helmet shell 60 after application of an epoxy resin matrix material to the elongate band 51 (see FIGS. 2a and 2b). The second end 77 of the elongate band 51 is slightly overlapped with the first end 74 to form a continuous edge around the perimeter of the shell 60, as shown in FIG. 4. In an alternative embodiment, the second end 77 of the elongate band 51 may abut against the first end 74 without overlapping.
DDDR:: In one embodiment, the epoxy resin is applied to the elongate band 51 prior to positioning the elongate band 51 on the ballistic helmet shell 60. In an alternative embodiment, the resin is applied to the elongate band 51 after the elongate band 51 has been positioned on the ballistic helmet shell 60. The elongate band 51 is held in position until the resin cures. For example, one means for holding the elongate band 51 against the edge 59 during curing is a vacuum bag which presses evenly around the full length of the elongate band 51, urging it against the edge 59 of the helmet shell 60. However, any suitable means of holding the elongate band 51 in place while the resin cures may be utilized.
DDDR:: FIG. 4 shows the resulting edge band 80 of the present invention as seen from the inside 62 of the helmet shell 60, in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. The edge band 80 is formed from the elongate band 51, which is held in intimately conforming contact with the edge 59 of a ballistic helmet shell 60. The inner edge 68 of the elongate band 51 is rigidly held in intimately conforming contact with the curved contour of the interior 62 of the helmet shell 60, while the outer edge 71 is rigidly held in intimately conforming contact with the curved contour of the exterior 63 of the helmet shell 60. A first end 74 of the elongate band 51 is overlapped with the second end 77 of the elongate band 51, thereby forming a continuous edge band 80 around the perimeter of the helmet shell 60.
DDDR:: FIG. 5 shows the edge band 80 of FIG. 4 after the matrix material has cured, thereby rigidly holding the edge band to the edge of a ballistic helmet shell 60, as seen from the outside of the helmet.
DDDR:: It is often advantageous to use carbon fiber material for the edge band instead of a rubber-like material, because the carbon fiber protects the edge of the helmet but also adds stiffness. Alternative methods of providing stiffness to the helmet may include adding one or more layers of carbon fiber material to the helmet shell itself. However, this adds more weight and does not improve, and may in fact hurt, the ballistic performance of the shell 60.
DDDR:: In another embodiment, thin strips of carbon fiber material are bonded along the edge of the helmet shell 60. While this embodiment does provide increased stiffness without excessive weight, the woven elements of the material may fray and leave a jagged and uneven edge. One advantage of an elongate band constructed from a biaxial sleeve or a woven strap is that it allows for an edge band without any frayed side edges along its length. For example, an edge band including a woven sleeve will have smooth doubled-over edges, such as inner edge 68 and outer edge 71, with a double thickness of material along the perimeter of the edge of the helmet. Thus, embodiments of the invention including a folded sleeve provide an edge band that includes two layers of woven fibers that will not fray along the sides of the helmet shell. As a result, the edge band may be stronger, more durable, and more aesthetically pleasing than conventional alternatives.
DDDR:: In an alternative embodiment of the invention, an elongate band may be fabricated by sewing an inner and an outer hem onto flat strips of carbon fiber material. However, forming the hem includes an extra step in the manufacturing process, and the result does not provide the double thick piece of material along the edge of the helmet.
DDDR:: One embodiment of the invention includes a method for providing protection and added stiffness to the edge of a ballistic helmet 60. With reference to FIGS. 2-4, this method includes (i) providing a flexible woven-fiber elongate band 51 with a matrix material in contact with the elongate band 51; (ii) positioning the elongate band 51 over and holding in intimate conforming contact with an exposed edge 59 of a helmet shell 60 such that an inner edge 68 of the elongate band 51 extends upwards along an inner surface contour 62 of the helmet shell 60, and an outer edge 71 of the elongate band 51 extends upwards along an outer surface 63 contour of the helmet shell 60; and (iii) causing the matrix material to change from a flexible to a rigid state, thereby rigidly holding the elongate band 51 in intimate conforming contact with the helmet shell 60.
DDDR:: The matrix material may, for example, be an epoxy resin that is applied in liquid form to saturate the fibers of the elongate band 51 and then cured to rigidly bond with the fibers of the elongate band and the helmet shell 60. Alternatively the matrix material may be a thermoset or thermoplastic material which changes from a flexible state to a rigid state upon the application of heat or heat and pressure. The thermoplastic material may be woven as a fiber into the elongate band 51, applied as a powder, or injected or soaked into the fibers of the elongate band 51 in a molten state. In one embodiment, the matrix material may be substantially similar to the material of the matrix used to fabricate the helmet shell 60.
DDDR:: In one embodiment, the elongate band includes a woven material with smooth doubled-over edges formed, for example, by sewing hems along the length of the material, to provide a flexible woven fiber band that has no exposed fiber "ends" except at the elongate distal ends of the band. In one embodiment, a biaxial tubular sleeve is employed. In an alternative embodiment, fiber bands fabricated from any suitable weaving process such as, for example, that used in weaving fibrous straps, are employed. The fiber band is then saturated with epoxy resin, applied to the edge of the helmet shell while it is in a flexible or transition state and held in place until the resin is cured or hardened. As a result, the woven fiber band will harden in place while bonding to the helmet shell.
DDDR:: In one embodiment, a composite (i.e. a mixture) of the structural fibers such as carbon fiber is woven together with fibers of a fibrous thermoplastic material (e.g. nylon) to form a flexible band. The composite band is then applied to the edge of the helmet shell and held in place while applying heat or heat and pressure to cause the composite band to transition from flexible to a rigid state As a result, the woven band will harden in place while bonding to the helmet shell, which simplifies the manufacturing process while providing significant improvements in the structural properties of the edge band and helmet shell (as compared with traditional methods of forming the edge band first and then bonding it to the helmet).
DDDR:: For the purposes of the present invention, a "fiber" is an elongated body, the length dimension of which is much greater than the transverse dimensions of width and thickness. Accordingly, the term fiber includes monofilament fiber, multifilament fiber, ribbon, strip, a plurality of any one of combinations thereof and the like having regular or irregular cross-section.
DDDR:: Depending on the particular embodiment, different fibers and different matrices can be used. Useful fibers include, but are not limited to, polyolefin based polymers, e.g. ultra-high-molecular-weight polyolefin fibers including polyethylene and polypropylene fibers, aramid fibers, polyvinyl alcohol fibers and other high strength fibers. Also useful in the present invention are a variety of conventional fibers including, but not limited to, asbestos, carbon, graphite, boron, cellulose, alumina, and metal fibers, and combinations thereof.
DDDR:: Suitable matrix materials include, but are not limited to, polyethylenes, cross-linked polyethylenes, polypropylenes, ethylene copolymers, propylene copolymers and other olefin polymers and copolymers. Matrix materials may also include unsaturated polyesters, phenolics, polybutyrals, epoxy resins, polyurethane resins, and other low modulus resins.
DDDR:: In one embodiment of the invention, the proportion of matrix to fiber may range from about 5% to about 150%, by weight of fibers. Within this range, in one embodiment, composites having a relatively high fiber content, such as composites having only 10-50% matrix material, by weight of fibers, and more preferably 10-30% matrix material, may be used. In alternative embodiments, composites with higher or lower ratios of matrix to fiber may be used.
DDDR:: Having described certain embodiments of the invention, it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating the concepts disclosed herein may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the described embodiments are to be considered in all respects as only illustrative and not restrictive.
CLI :: 1. A safety helmet comprising: a helmet shell; and an edge band comprising a flexible, woven fiber, folded tubular sleeve and a matrix material in contact with fibers of the folded tubular sleeve, wherein an inner edge of the folded tubular sleeve intimately conforms to and extends upwards along an inner surface contour of the helmet shell and an outer edge of the folded tubular sleeve intimately conforms to and extends upwards along an outer surface contour of the helmet shell, wherein the edge band provide increased structural support to the helmet shell.
CLD :: 2. The safety helmet of claim 1, wherein the matrix material is rigidified so as to hold the folded tubular sleeve in intimately conforming contact with the inner and outer surface contours of the helmet shell when activated.
CLD :: 3. The safety helmet of claim 2, wherein the matrix material is activated by at least one of applying heat, applying a catalyst, or curing the matrix material.
CLD :: 4. The safety helmet of claim 1, wherein the matrix material comprises at least one of an epoxy resin, a polyurethane resin, or an unsaturated polyester resin.
CLD :: 5. The safety helmet of claim 1, wherein the matrix material is thermoplastic.
CLD :: 6. The safety helmet of claim 1, wherein a first distal end of the edge band overlaps with a second distal end of the edge band.
CLD :: 7. The safety helmet of claim 1, wherein a first distal end of the edge band abuts against a second distal end of the edge band.
CLD :: 8. The safety helmet of claim 1, wherein the safety helmet comprises a ballistic safety helmet.
CLD :: 9. The safety helmet of claim 1, wherein the folded tubular sleeve comprises a plurality of carbon fibers extending substantially along an elongate axis thereof.
CLD :: 10. The safety helmet of claim 1, wherein the folded tubular sleeve comprises a biaxial fiber material.
CLD :: 11. The safety helmet of claim 1, wherein the fiber material is comprised of carbon fibers.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Protective cover for medical device having adhesive mechanism
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661573
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 13408651
APDT:: 20120229
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 734
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 734
INVS:: SHAFER HELEN ZINREICH|ZINREICH DAVID ALAN|CRUMB DOUGLAS
APLS:: SHAFER HELEN ZINREICH|ZINREICH DAVID ALAN|CRUMB DOUGLAS
LREP:: ALCHEMY-PARTNERS, PC|JAGTIANI AJAY A.
ASSE:: IZI MEDICAL PRODUCTS
EXMR:: PATEL TEJASH
NCLS:: 119
NCLI:: 4
NCLD:: 115
NFIG:: 24
DSCL:: 9451
SUML:: 2179
BKGL:: 859
DDRL:: 570
DDSL:: 6760
CLFL:: 103
CLIL:: 104
CLDL:: 123
NREF:: 352
NRFA:: 348
NRFX:: 4
IPCC:: A-A-41-D-13-00-F-I
USCC::   2468||  2468|607110|607112|  2468|  2468||  2171||  2456||  21712||  2 69||  2207||  22087||  220913||  220914||  2202||  2203||  2204||  2205||  22094||  2DIG 11||  21951||602 74||602 75||607109||607139||607112|
SFLD::   2468|  2171|  2456|  21712|  2 69|  2207|  22087|  220913|  220914|  2202|  2203|  2204|  2205|  22094|  2DIG 11|  21951|602 74|602 75|607109|607139|607112
RLDX:: XXX:20130219601:20130829
NRLD:: 1
NPRV:: 0
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: A protective liner is described comprising a collar having a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction. Disclosed embodiments may include a chest portion extending from the main collar portion. The protective liner may also include an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension. The adjustable releasable fastener may be disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material.
DHXX:: CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
DDXX:: This application makes reference to the following applications filed Feb. 29, 2011 to the same inventors as the present application: application Ser. No. 13/408,582 entitled "PROTECTIVE COVER FOR MEDICAL DEVICE," application Ser. No. 13/408,699 entitled "PROTECTIVE COVER FOR MEDICAL DEVICE HAVING A RADIATION DETECTOR" and application Ser. No. 13/408,766 entitled "PROTECTIVE COVER FOR MEDICAL DEVICE HAVING ETCHED FASTENERS" the entire content and disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND
DDBK:: 1. Field of the Invention
DDBK:: The present invention relates generally to protective apparel employed as a barrier to prevent contamination of worn shielding attire. More particularly, it relates to a liner for averting transfer of bodily fluids from a patient and contamination of a radiation shield during radiological procedures.
DDBK:: 2. Related Art
DDBK:: Radiological technologists often utilize lead apparel for protection against X-rays needed during X-ray procedures. Dentists may also use lead apparel for the protection for their patients during dental X-ray examinations. It is estimated that upwards of 40 million mammography procedures are conducted annually in the United States; upwards of 100 million dental X-rays are estimated to be performed annually in the United States. Concerns exist for having to use a thyroid shield previously used by an undetermined number of people. Lead protective gear is expensive and therefore used over frequently by personnel and patients, which may cause it to become soiled and stained in the process.
DDBK:: In general, radiation shields which cover portions of the body, such as the thyroid area, are known in the art. Examples of such radiation shields are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,938,233, filed by Orrison, Jr., issued Jul. 3, 1990, entitled "Radiation Shield." These radiation shields are generally comprised of a body of radiation-attenuating material and an attachment member. The attachment member of the radiation shield is configured to be worn around an appendage such as the neck so that the radiation-attenuating material protects a particular body portion.
DDBK:: Radiation shields are intended for use in non-sterile environments during radiological diagnostic procedures or oncological treatments. The shields are worn, for example, by patients to selectively isolate, shroud and protect particular regions of the anatomy. Many radiation shields are designed to be reusable. Thus, the same radiation shield may be worn, perhaps, hundreds of times by different patients. As such, during usage, the radiation shield may become exposed, for example, to sweat and other fluids from a patient during radiological processes such as during mammograms and/or dental X-rays. It is, therefore, necessary to clean the radiation shield between patient uses. The cleaning and disinfecting process may reduce the efficiency of the office practice due to the fact that the aforementioned cleaning process can take a considerable amount of time and effort to perform by office personnel. In addition, the cleaning process would most likely need to be performed multiple times throughout the day to serve multiple patients.
DDBK:: Nevertheless, despite cleaning efforts, the radiation shields often become soiled with bodily fluids or otherwise-unsightly discolorations. These stained radiation shields, which often contain environmentally unfriendly materials, must, therefore, be disposed of In addition, these events may pose a barrier against green efforts as the discarded radiation shields may eventually accumulate in landfills. Further, if the radiation shield is not properly cleaned, the patient or practitioner may unknowingly wear a soiled or otherwise unsanitary shield.
DDBK:: Another consideration raised during radiological procedures is knowing whether undesired body portions have been exposed to radiation. There are currently no conventional systems employed within shielding equipment to indicate whether localized body portions have been exposed during X-ray procedures in a medical office or dental office environment.
DDBK:: Attempts have been made, within the prior art, to address shielding radiation shields from direct contact with a user. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,523,581, filed by Cadwalader, issued Jun. 4, 1996, entitled "Slipcover for Radiation Shields" provides a slipcover or covering for containing a flexible radiation shield that allows the radiation shield to be reused without experiencing staining. However, the intricate design of the slipcover may make its application cumbersome during usage as one attempts to insert the flexible radiation shield within its pocket to secure it therein. Furthermore, the process of removing and employing another slipcover between patient use is time consuming and may also inadvertently expose the radiation shield to contact with soiled regions of the slipcover as it is removed.
DDBK:: Thus, there is a need for allowing radiation shields to be hygienically reused and for eliminating cleaning and disinfecting of the radiation shield between patient use. There is also a need for providing a low cost, disposable and easily employed solution for shielding transfer of bodily fluids to the radiation shield. A need also exists for providing an indicator to alert a user to radiation exposure to particular areas of the body.
DHSM:: SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
DDSM:: It is, therefore, an object of the present invention to overcome the deficiencies of the prior art to include a disclosed exemplary embodiment that, in some embodiments, includes a protective liner comprising: a collar having a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction. Disclosed embodiments may include a chest portion extending from the main collar portion. The protective liner may also include an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension. The adjustable releasable fastener may be disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material.
DDSM:: In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a first material forming a collar having a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, and a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction. Disclosed embodiments may include a chest portion extending from the main collar portion. The protective line may also include an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension. The adjustable releasable fastener may be disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven material. A second material coating a surface of the first material may be provided, wherein the second material is fluid repellent.
DDSM:: In yet another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a collar having a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a first tie extension extending from the first extension and a second tie extension extending from the second extension. Embodiments may provide a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material.
DDSM:: In still another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a first material forming a collar having a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction and a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction. The protective liner may provide a first tie extension extending from the first extension and a second tie extension extending from the second extension. A chest portion may be provided extending from the main collar portion, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven material. Embodiments may provide a second material coating a surface of the first material, wherein the second material is fluid repellent.
DDSM:: In another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a collar comprising: a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension, the adjustable releasable fastener disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material, wherein the adjustable releasable fastener comprises fastener portions formed from a surface of the first extension and a slot formed in the second extension for receiving the fastener portions.
DDSM:: In still another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a collar comprising: a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension, the adjustable releasable fastener disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material, and a radiation device attached to the material.
DDSM:: In another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a first material forming a collar comprising a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension, the adjustable releasable fastener disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven material, a second material coating a surface of the first material, wherein the second material is fluid repellent, and a radiation device attached to the first material.
DDSM:: In still another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a collar comprising: a collar comprising a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a first tie extension extending from the first extension, a second tie extension extending from the second extension, a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material, and a radiation device attached to the material.
DDSM:: In another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a first material forming a collar comprising: a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a first tie extension extending from the first extension, a second tie extension extending from the second extension, a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven material, a second material coating a surface of the first material, wherein the second material is fluid repellent, and a radiation device attached to the first material.
DDSM:: In still another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, and an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension, the adjustable releasable fastener disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material, wherein the material of the protective liner is configured to be folded upon itself for storage or packaging.
DDSM:: In another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a first material forming a collar comprising: a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension, the adjustable releasable fastener disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven material, and a second material coating a surface of the first material, wherein the second material is fluid repellent, wherein the first material and the second material of the protective liner are configured to be folded upon itself for storage or packaging.
DDSM:: In still another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a collar comprising: a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a first tie extension extending from the first extension, a second tie extension extending from the second extension, and a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material, wherein the material of the protective liner is configured to be folded upon itself for storage or packaging.
DDSM:: In another embodiment of the present invention, a protective liner is provided comprising: a first material forming a collar comprising: a main collar portion, a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction, a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction, a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension, the adjustable releasable fastener disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven material, and a second material coating a surface of the first material, wherein the second material is fluid repellent, wherein the first material and the second material of the protective liner are configured to be folded upon itself for storage or packaging.
DDSM:: There has thus been outlined, rather broadly, certain embodiments of the invention in order that the detailed description of the invention herein may be better understood, and in order that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. There are, of course, additional embodiments of the invention that will be described below and which will form the subject matter of the claims appended hereto.
DDSM:: In this respect, before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and to the arrangements of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of embodiments in addition to those described and being practiced and carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein, as well as in the abstract, are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.
DDSM:: As such, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the concept upon which this disclosure is based may readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other structures, methods and systems for carrying out the several purposes of the present invention. It is important, therefore, that the claims be regarded as including such equivalent constructions insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present invention.
DDSM:: Still other aspects, features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description, simply by illustrating a number of exemplary embodiments and implementations, including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the present invention. The present invention also is capable of other and different embodiments, and its several details can be modified in various respects, all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly, the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated herein and constitute part of this specification, illustrate exemplary embodiments of the invention and, together with the detailed description given below, serve to explain the features of the invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 1 illustrates a protective liner in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 2 illustrates a frontal view of the protective liner of FIG. 1 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 3A illustrates a front view of the protective liner of FIG. 1 worn by a patient in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 3B illustrates a rear view of the protective liner of FIG. 1 worn by a patient in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 4A illustrates a front view of the protective liner of FIG. 1 employed underneath a radiation shield worn by a patient in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 4B illustrates a rear view of the protective liner of FIG. 1 employed underneath a radiation shield worn by a patient in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIGS. 5A-5C illustrate views of a protective liner having a fastening means in accordance with a first embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIGS. 6A-6C illustrate views of a protective liner having a fastening means in accordance with a second embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIGS. 7A-7C illustrate views of a protective liner having a fastening means in accordance with a third embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIGS. 8A-8C illustrate views of a protective liner having a fastening means in accordance with a fourth embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIGS. 9A-9C illustrate views of a protective liner having a fastening means in accordance with a fifth embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 10 illustrates a protective liner having a fastening means in accordance with a sixth embodiment of the invention;
DDDR:: FIG. 11A illustrates a front view of a protective liner employing a retaining means to maintain a position of a radiation shield in accordance with an embodiment of the invention; and
DDDR:: FIG. 11B illustrates the protective liner of FIG. 11A employed underneath a radiation shield in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
DDDD:: Definitions
DDDD:: Where the definition of a term departs from the commonly used meaning of the term, applicant intends to utilize the definitions provided below, unless specifically indicated.
DDDD:: A "bib" is used to describe a garment worn hanging from the neck and extending to the chest area of a person.
DDDD:: "Electromagnetic radiation" (EM radiation or EMR) is meant to refer to a form of energy emitted and absorbed by charged particles, which exhibits wave-like behavior as it travels through space. EMR has both electric and magnetic field components, which oscillate in phase perpendicular to each other and perpendicular to the direction of energy and wave propagation. In vacuum, electromagnetic radiation propagates at a characteristic speed, the speed of light. EMR carries energy:ux2014;sometimes called radiant energy:ux2014;and both momentum and angular momentum. These may be imparted to matter with which it interacts. EMR is produced from other types of energy when created, and it is converted to other types of energy when it is destroyed. The photon is the quantum of the electromagnetic interaction, and is the basic "unit" or constituent of all forms of EMR. The quantum nature of light becomes more apparent at high frequencies (or high photon energy). Such photons behave more like particles than lower-frequency photons do. In classical physics, EMR is considered to be produced when charged particles are accelerated by forces acting on them. Electrons are responsible for emission of most EMR because they have low mass, and therefore are easily accelerated by a variety of mechanisms. Rapidly moving electrons are most sharply accelerated when they encounter a region of force, so they are responsible for producing much of the highest frequency electromagnetic radiation observed in nature. Quantum processes can also produce EMR, such as when atomic nuclei undergo gamma decay, and processes such as neutral pion decay. EMR is classified according to the frequency of its wave. The electromagnetic spectrum, in order of increasing frequency and decreasing wavelength, consists of radio waves, microwaves, infrared radiation, visible light, ultraviolet radiation, X-rays and gamma rays. The eyes of various organisms sense a small and somewhat variable window of frequencies of EMR called the visible spectrum. The effects of EMR upon biological systems (and also to many other chemical systems, under standard conditions) depends both upon the radiation's power and frequency. For lower frequencies of EMR up to those of visible light (i.e., radio, microwave, infrared), the damage done to cells and also to many ordinary materials under such conditions is determined mainly by heating effects, and thus by the radiation power. By contrast, for higher frequency radiations at ultraviolet frequencies and above (i.e., X-rays and gamma rays) the damage to chemical materials and living cells by EMR is far larger than that done by simple heating, due to the ability of single photons in such high frequency EMR to damage individual molecules chemically.
DDDD:: "Mammogram" is meant to refer to the technique of using X-rays to examine the breast in the early detection of cancer.
DDDD:: "Oncology" is meant to refer to the branch of medical science dealing with tumors, including the origin, development, diagnosis, and treatment of malignant neoplasms.
DDDD:: A "radiation shield" is used to describe a lead shield that can be put over a patient to prevent radiation from spreading to parts other than the part of the body being tested during a radiological process.
DDDD:: "Radiology" is meant to refer to the science dealing with X-rays and the interpretation of medical X-ray photographs especially for medical uses. Radiology is a medical specialty that employs the use of imaging to both diagnose and treat disease visualized within the human body. Radiologists use an array of imaging technologies (such as X-ray radiography, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine, positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)) to diagnose or treat diseases.
DDDD:: "Radiological" is of, relating to, or concerning radiology or the equipment used in radiology.
DDDD:: "Radiograph" is meant to refer to an image produced on a radio-sensitive surface, such as photographic film, by radiation other than visible light, as by X-rays passed through an object.
DDDD:: "Non-woven fabric" is meant to refer to fabric-like material made from long fibers, bonded together by chemical, mechanical, heat or solvent treatment. Nonwoven fabrics are broadly defined as sheet or web structures bonded together by entangling fiber or filaments (and by perforating films) mechanically, thermally or chemically. They may comprise flat sheets that are made directly from separate fibers or from molten plastic or plastic film. They are not made by weaving or knitting and do not require converting the fibers to yarn. Typically, a certain percentage of recycled fabrics and oil-based materials are used in non-woven fabrics. Non-woven fabrics are engineered fabrics that may be a limited life fabric, single-use fabric or a very durable fabric. Non-woven fabrics provide specific functions such as absorbency, liquid repellence, resilience, stretch, softness, strength, flame retardancy, washability, cushioning, filtering, use as a bacterial barrier and sterility. These properties are often combined to create fabrics suited for specific jobs, while achieving a good balance between product use/life and cost.
DDDD:: "Radiation dosimeter" is meant to refer to a device for measuring exposure to ionizing radiation such as X-rays, alpha rays, beta rays, and gamma rays.
DDDD:: "Radiolucent" is meant to refer to anything that permits the penetration and passage of X-rays or other forms of radiation.
DDDD:: "Spun-melt-spun" (SMS) is meant to refer to certain types of non-woven fabric, because they comprise superimposing spun layers on melted layers on more spun layers.
DDDD:: "Thyroid" is meant to refer to one of the largest endocrine glands. The thyroid gland is found in the neck, below (inferior to) the thyroid cartilage (which forms the laryngeal prominence, or "Adam's apple"). The isthmus (the bridge between the two lobes of the thyroid) is located inferior to the cricoid cartilage.
DDDD:: "X-ray," X-radiation (composed of X-rays) is meant to refer to a form of electromagnetic radiation. X-rays have a wavelength in the range of 0.01 to 10 nanometers (nm), corresponding to frequencies in the range 30 petahertz to 30 exahertz (3 x 1016 Hz to 3 x 1019 Hz) and energies in the range 120 eV to 120 keV. They are shorter in wavelength than UV rays and longer than gamma rays. X-rays from about 0.12 to 12 keV (10 to 0.10 nm wavelength) are classified as "soft" X-rays, and from about 12 to 120 keV (0.10 to 0.01 nm wavelength) as "hard" X-rays, due to their penetrating abilities. Hard X-rays can penetrate solid objects, and their most common use is to take images of the inside of objects in diagnostic radiography and crystallography. As a result, the term X-ray is metonymically used to refer to a radiographic image produced using this method, in addition to the method itself. By contrast, soft X-rays hardly penetrate matter at all; the attenuation length of 600 eV (:ux2dc;2 nm) X-rays in water is less than 1 micrometer. Thus, X-rays, a form of electromagnetic radiation, similar to light but of shorter wavelength are capable of penetrating solids and of ionizing gases to produce a picture produced by exposing photographic film to X-rays. X-rays may be used in medicine as a diagnostic aid as parts of the body, such as bones, absorb X-rays and so appear as opaque areas on the photographic film.
DDDD:: Description
DDDD:: The invention will now be described with reference to the drawing figures, in which like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout. The following detailed description is of example embodiments of the presently claimed invention with references to the accompanying drawings. Such description is intended to be illustrative and not limiting with respect to the scope of the present invention. Such embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to practice the subject invention, and it will be understood that other embodiments may be practiced with some variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject invention.
DDDD:: Turning to FIGS. 1 and 2, a protective liner 10 is illustrated as a disposable bib designed to keep a radiation shield (e.g., a thyroid shield) clean from patient sweat and fluids during radiological procedures such as when receiving mammograms and dental X-rays. Protective liner 10 may be utilized, for example, by mammography technicians and dental hygienists/technicians to eliminate the need for cleaning and decontamination of thyroid shields between patient usage. In the disclosed embodiment, protective liner 10 serves as a barrier between the neck and chest area of a patient and the radiation shield.
DDDD:: A collar is provided generally at a top region of protective liner 10. The collar is designed as a wide-strip collar portion that fits around the neck of a patient and may be secured at the back of the neck. FIGS. 1 and 2 illustrate a main collar portion, which may be generally positioned at the front of the neck. A right extension or arm 16 and left extension or arm 18 emanates from main collar portion 12. Thus, disclosed embodiments of the collar include main collar portion 12, right extension 16 and left extension 18. The, collar is designed to cover the entire neck region and may run generally along or come into contact with the chin and lower jaw area of a patient when worn. Chest portion 14 extends downwardly from and substantially perpendicular to collar portion 12 to cover the chest portion of a patient when worn. Hence, in disclosed configurations, right extension 16 and left extension 18 emanate and extend from opposite directions of main collar portion 12. As shown in FIGS. 1 and 2, right extension 16 and left extension 18 extend past a distance of the width of chest portion 14, thereby forming an overall "T" configuration of protective liner 10.
DDDD:: Protective liner 10 may be secured to a patient via a right extension 16 and a left extension 18. The interior surface 27 of protective liner 10 faces the patient, when worn, to directly contact the body of the patient along the neck and chest region. The exterior surface 29 of protective liner 10 faces outwardly from the patient, when worn, and is in direct contact with a radiation shield, as described below. Right extension 16 and left extension 18 are wrapped around the neck and secured together in order to fit and secure protective liner 10 to a patient.
DDDD:: As shown, for example, in FIG. 3A, once right extension 16 and left extension 18 are wrapped around the neck of a patient and secured together, the collar (comprising main collar portion 12, right extension 16 and left extension 18) is positioned substantially high around the circumference of the neck region and may even extend to generally run along or come into contact with the chin and lower jaw area of a when worn. Chest portion 14 is disposed generally downwardly and along the front chest region of the patient. FIG. 3B illustrates a rear view of protective liner 10 wherein right extension 16 and left extension 18 are fastened together behind the neck of a patient to secure protective liner 10 in position. Embodiments for a variety of fastening means for securing protective line 10 are described below. Protective liner 10 provides an overlapping of right extension 16 and left extension 18 such that no portion of the rear neck area is exposed after protective liner 10 is wrapped around the neck and secured. Disclosed embodiments of protective liner 10 also may provide adjustability of right extension 16 and/or left extension 18 to accommodate a variety of sizes to fit an assortment of patient body types. Even more, embodiments of protective liner 10 may include dimensional sizes corresponding to cover a full range of patient sizes and thyroid shields. For example, the aforementioned multiple sizes may include child, small, medium large, extra-large. Once positioned and in a secured manner, protective liner 10 is configured to conform to the shape of the body of the patient and lying generally flat against the body of the patient such that relatively no bunching is permitted to, thereby, allow exposure of a covered body portion and/or clothing material of the patient.
DDDD:: Turning to FIG. 4A, a radiation shield 22 is fitted and secured over protective liner 10 and around the neck of a patient. In the disclosed embodiment, radiation shield 22 is utilized as a thyroid shield employed to protect the thyroid region against exposure to radiation during a radiological process. Radiation shield 22 may generally be designed to include a collar portion 21 which generally fits the patient at the thyroid region. A portion 23 of radiation shield 22 may extend downwardly towards the chest region. Extended arm portions 35, 37 of radiation shield 22 may wrap around the neck of a patient and connected together to secure radiation shield in position (e.g., see FIG. 4B).
DDDD:: During use, radiation shield 22 is positioned over and on top of exterior surface 29 of protective liner 10. Disclosed embodiments of protective liner 10 are designed to be larger and lie under radiation shield 22 wherein protective liner 10 is affixed by joining right extension 16 to left extension 18 behind the neck of a patient. Hence, the dimensions of protective liner 10 are generally larger than the dimensions of radiation shield 22 in order to prevent radiation shield 22 from coming into direct contact with the patient and/or clothing worn by the patient. Accordingly, portions of radiation shield 22, for example, resting upon the chest and around the neck of the patient are shielded from direct contact with the patient by protective liner 10. By aligning protective liner 10 under radiation shield 22 in the disclosed manner, no transfer of sweat and/or other fluids from the patient may occur to radiation shield 22. In effect, protective liner 10 acts as a barrier between the neck and chest of a patient and radiation shield 22. Once the radiological procedure is complete, radiation shield 22 is simply removed from the patient with no portion of radiation shield 22 coming into contact with the patient. Once radiation shield 22 is removed from the patient, protective liner 10 may be unsecured, removed and discarded, as discussed below.
DDDD:: Components of protective liner 10 including, for example, main collar portion 12, chest portion 14, right extension 16 and left extension 18 may be formed as a unitary structure, such as from a pre-selected material as described herein. Disclosed material utilized for protective liner 10 may include a soft, hypoallergenic, non-woven, latex-free, material. The material is pliable to achieve the shape of a body portion or region while remaining relative flat against a body contour thereof Select embodiments may include protective liner 10 as a fabric material that is fluid repellent to prevent sweat or other bodily fluid from penetrating the material. Accordingly, the aforementioned fabric material may include non-woven fabric of an SMS (spun-melt-spun) plastic material, for example, having a prescribed tensile strength. A coating may be applied to surfaces of the SMS material such as a polypropylene and polyethylene laminate to facilitate fluid repellency of the material. Protective liner 10 may be supplied in a variety of colors including, for example, medical blue, green, white, purple or orange. In addition, embodiments of the material of protective liner 10 may be printable, for example, to exhibit a logo or office design. The material of protective liner 10 is also radiolucent, disposable and tear free.
DDDD:: Select embodiments of the present invention may incorporate additional equipment or devices to the design of protective liner 10. For example, turning to FIGS. 1-3A, a radiation device, such as dosimeter 20 is provided, for example, on the exterior surface 29 of protective liner 10. Any suitable connection means may be utilized to attach dosimeter 20, for example, to the exterior surface 29 of protective liner 10. Thus, dosimeter 20 may be retrofitted within the material of protective liner 10. Dosimeter 20 is generally disposed along a region of protective liner corresponding to a position over a prescribed body part being tested during a radiological process. In this case, dosimeter 20 is generally disposed at an area corresponding to a position over the thyroid region. When radiation shield 22 is positioned over protective liner 10, dosimeter 20 will indicate (e.g., via change of color) whether any measured amounts of ionizing radiation have penetrated this area during a radiological procedure. Additional and/or alternative devices may be utilized as or in place of dosimeter 20 including, for example, Inlight(R) nanoDot:ux2122;utilized for diagnostic radiology, therapy, or any single point radiation assessment application.
DDDD:: FIGS. 5A-5C illustrate a first embodiment of protective liner 10 having a releasable fastener wherein one end of the collar has a fastening means with a weaker fastening strength than the other end of the collar. Exemplary embodiments of the invention may includes a loop element 26 and hook element 28 of a hook and loop fastener, i.e., a VELCRO(R) fastener. In the disclosed embodiment, hook element 28 is attached to the interior surface 27 of right extension 16 and loop element 26 is attached to the exterior surface 29 of left extension 18 by any suitable attachment means. When right extension 16 and left extension 18 are wrapped around the neck of a patient, loop element 26 and hook element 28 are engaged to couple loop elements 26 together with hook elements 28 in order to secure protective liner 10 around the neck. It is expected that right extension 16 may overlap left extension 18 during fastening so that no portion of the neck area is exposed. Both portions of the loop element 26 and hook element 28 are sufficiently provided in order to adjust right extension 16 and left extension 18 with respect to one another to allow the collar to accommodate a variety of bodily dimensions of the patient. When secured in the aforementioned manner, interior surface 27 of collar portion 12 rests substantially flat against the neck area of the patient. Additionally, interior surface 27 of chest portion 14 lies relatively flat against the chest of the patient.
DDDD:: FIGS. 6A-6C illustrate a second embodiment of protective liner 10 having a releasable fastener such as an adhesive element 30. In select embodiments, adhesive element 30 may comprise double-sided tape. One side of adhesive element 30 may be attached to the interior surface 27 of right extension 16. The exposed side of adhesive element 30 may be utilized to join exterior surface 29 of left extension 18. In the exemplary embodiment wherein adhesive element 30 comprises double-sided tape, the exposed side of the double-sided tape may be covered with a removable cover until protective liner 10 is ready for use. When protective liner 10 is ready for use, the removable cover is removed from the exposed side of the double-sided tape. When right extension 16 and left extension 18 are wrapped around the neck of a patient, the exposed side of the double-sided tape (i.e., adhesive element 30) may be affixed to exterior surface 29 of left extension 18 in order to secure protective liner 10 around the neck. It is expected that right extension 16 may overlap left extension 18 during fastening so that no portion of the neck area is exposed. Portions of adhesive element 30 are sufficiently provided in order to adjust right extension 16 and left extension 18 with respect to one another to allow the collar to accommodate a variety of bodily dimensions of the patient. When secured in the aforementioned manner, interior surface 27 of the collar rests substantially flat against the neck area of the patient. Additionally, interior surface 27 of chest portion 14 lies relatively flat against the chest of the patient.
DDDD:: FIGS. 7A-7C illustrate a third embodiment of protective liner 10 having a releasable fastener such as a slip-through-and-catch design. In the disclosed embodiment, the slip-through-and-catch design includes etched fastener portions 32 configured into the design of right extension 16. Outside edges 19 of right extension 16 taper towards the middle 44 to form reduced portions 41. Reduced portions 41 may taper back to increased portions 39 at outside edges 19. A series of reduced and increased portions may be formed from the surface of right extension 16 to create etched fastener portions 32. Therefore, a design of the etched fastener portions 32 forms reduced portions 41 between increased portions 39. In exemplary embodiments, the material of protective liner 10 may be stamped out to form etched fastener portions 32. Once formed, spaces 43 are formed between increased portions 39. Any suitable number of increased portions 39 and reduced portions 41 may be formed on right extension 16 to provide adjustability of the collar around the neck of a patient, as described below. The described embodiment provides a slot 34 to receive one or more increased portions 39 of etched fastener portions 32 therethrough to secure protective liner 10 around the neck of the patient. Slot 34 may fall into alignment with one of spaces 43 between increased portion 39, thereby fixing the collar in place around the neck of a patient. The increased portions 39 surrounding space 43 act as stops and will prevent right extension 16 from becoming unfastened from slot 34. Any appropriate space may be selected to fit the collar securely around the neck of a patient. It is expected that right extension 16 may overlap left extension 18 during fastening so that no portion of the neck area is exposed. Multiple spaces 43 are sufficiently provided in order to adjust right extension 16 and left extension 18 with respect to one another to allow the collar to accommodate a variety of bodily dimensions of the patient. The length "z" of etched portions 32 along right extension 16 may be established between a range of sizes. For example, in one select embodiment, the length "z" is 5.50 inches. When secured in the aforementioned manner, interior surface 27 of the collar rests substantially flat against the neck area of the patient. Additionally, interior surface 27 of chest portion 14 lies relatively flat against the chest of the patient.
DDDD:: FIGS. 8A-8C illustrate a fourth embodiment of protective liner 10 having a releasable fastener such as a button and snap design. In the disclosed embodiment, a button 36 is attached to the interior surface 27 of right extension 16 by any suitable attachment means. A plurality of snaps 38 are attached to the exterior surface 29 of left extension 18 by any suitable attachment means. When right extension 16 and left extension 18 are wrapped around the neck of a patient, button 36 may engage and couple with any one of snaps 38 to secure protective liner 10 around the neck of a patient. Coupling may occur by snap-fit arrangement. It is expected that right extension 16 may overlap left extension 18 during fastening so that no portion of the neck area is exposed. Multiple snaps 38 are provided along the length of left extension 18 in order to provide selective adjustment of right extension 16 with respect to left extension 18, thereby allowing the collar to accommodate a variety of bodily dimensions of the patient. When secured in the aforementioned manner, interior surface 27 of the collar rests substantially flat against the neck area of the patient. Additionally, interior surface 27 of chest portion 14 lies relatively flat against the chest of the patient.
DDDD:: FIGS. 9A-9C illustrate a fifth embodiment of protective liner 10 having a releasable fastener such as clip fastener and tab design. In the disclosed embodiment, a clip fastener 40 is attached to the interior surface 27 of right extension 16 by any suitable attachment means. A plurality of tabs 42 are attached to the exterior surface 29 of left extension 18 by any suitable attachment means. When right extension 16 and left extension 18 are wrapped around the neck of a patient, clip fastener 40 may engage and couple with any one of tabs 42 to secure protective liner 10 around the neck of a patient. Coupling may occur by clip fastener 40 latching onto one of tabs 42. It is expected that right extension 16 may overlap left extension 18 during fastening so that no portion of the neck area is exposed. Multiple tabs 42 are provided along the length of left extension 18 in order to provide selective adjustment of right extension 16 with respect to left extension 18, thereby allowing the collar to accommodate a variety of bodily dimensions of the patient. When secured in the aforementioned manner, interior surface 27 of the collar rests substantially flat against the neck area of the patient. Additionally, interior surface 27 of chest portion 14 lies relatively flat against the chest of the patient. In an alternative embodiment, tabs 42 may be replaced with slots, wherein clip fastener 40 latches onto or hooks into the slot to fasten right extension 16 to left extension 18 at a prescribed position to secure protective liner 10 around the neck of a patient.
DDDD:: FIG. 10 illustrates a sixth embodiment of protective liner 10 having a releasable fastener such as tie design. In the disclosed embodiment, extended pieces of material extend from the collar of protected liner 10. The extended pieces of material may form a right tie extension 31 and a left tie extension 33 as continuing pieces of material extending from right extension 16 and left extension 18, respectively. Thus, in the immediate embodiment of FIG. 10, components of protective liner 10 including, for example, main collar portion 12, chest portion 14, right extension 16, left extension 18, right tie extension 31 and left tie extension 33 may be formed as a unitary structure, such as from the pre-selected material, as described herein.
DDDD:: Each of the right tie extension 31 and the left tie extension 33 may comprise a width "w" established between a range of sizes. An overall or total length of the top of the collar including right tie extension 31 and left tie extension 33 may comprise a length "p" established between a range of sizes. When right extension 16 and left extension 18 are wrapped around the neck of a patient, right tie extension 31 and left tie extension 33 may be tied together to secure protective liner 10 around the neck of a patient. It is expected that right edge 46 of right extension 16 may abut or overlap the left edge 48 of left extension 18 during fastening so that no portion of the neck area is exposed. When secured in the aforementioned manner, interior surface 27 of the collar rests substantially flat against the neck area of the patient. Additionally, interior surface 27 of chest portion 14 lies relatively flat against the chest of the patient. In an alternative embodiment, tabs 42 may be replaced with slots, wherein clip fastener 40 latches onto or hooks into the slot to fasten right extension 16 to left extension 18 at a prescribed position to secure protective liner 10 around the neck of a patient.
DDDD:: As previously discussed, the dimensions of protective liner 10 are generally larger than the dimensions of radiation shield 22 in order to prevent radiation shield 22 from coming into direct contact with the patient and/or clothing worn by the patient. Thus, in the selected embodiments of FIGS. 5B, 6B, 7B, 8B, 9B and 10, an overall or total length "l" of the collar (i.e., main collar portion 12, right extension 16 and left extension 18) may be established between a range of sizes. The diameter formed by wrapping the length "l" of main collar portion 12, right extension 16, and left extension 18 around the neck of a patient may be adjusted by moving and positioning right extension 16 with respect to left extension 18. The embodiments of releasable fasteners, shown and described in FIGS. 5A-10, join right extension 16 and left extension 18 in a fixed position to retain protective liner 10 in place and around the neck of the patient. In some disclosed embodiments, the described releasable fasteners unite right extension 16 with left extension 18 in an overlapped fashion thereby establishing an adjusted length and diameter of the collar when wrapped around the neck of a patient. The adjusted length and diameter will meet the circumference dimensions of the neck of a patient during use. In doing so, the collar may be fit snugly around the neck of the patient and lie substantially flat against the body of the patient such that gathering or bunching of protective liner 10 material is significantly reduced or avoided.
DDDD:: The length "b" of each arm 16 or 18 measured from an edge of chest portion 14 to the end of arm 16 or 18 may be established between a range of sizes. A thickness "d" the collar may be established between a range of sizes. A design of chest portion 14 may include a straight portion, having a width "a," extending from main collar portion 12 and terminating at a curved end portion. The overall width "a" may be established between a range of sizes. The length "c" of the straight portion of chest portion 14 may be established between a range of sizes. The radius "R" of the curved end portion may be established between a range of sizes. Thus, in one prepared embodiment, protective liner 10 includes an overall length "l" equaling approximately 24.00 inches, wherein the thickness "d" of the collar is approximately 3.00 inches. The length of arms 16, 18 is approximately 8.00 inches. The length "c" of the straight portion of chest portion 14 is approximately 5.00 inches, wherein the width "a" of the straight portion is approximately 8.00 inches. A radius "R" of the curved portion is approximately 5.00 inches.
DDDD:: FIG. 11A illustrates an embodiment of protective liner 12 employing a retaining means to maintain a position of radiation shield 22. Select embodiments may provide securing areas 50 disposed directly on exterior surface 29 for gripping and maintaining radiation shield 22 to thereby hold radiation shield 22 in position over top of protective liner 10. While two securing areas 50 are illustrated in FIG. 11A, it is readily appreciated that more or less securing areas 50 may be provided. The dimensions of securing areas 50 may also vary in sufficiency for holding radiation shield 22 in place over top of protective liner 10. An embodiment of securing areas 50 may include covering the entire exterior surface 29, such as, with a slip-resistant material; alternatively, only select portions of exterior surface may be covered. Embodiments of securing areas 50 may include an adhesive and/or a tactile finish comprising a coefficient of friction sufficient for supporting and retaining radiation shield 22 in place over top of protective liner 10. The adhesive area may be covered until such time for usage whereupon the cover is removed to expose the adhesive for securing radiation shield 22 thereto. Such an adhesive is appropriately applied such that it is releasable by reasonable amount of force to remove radiation shield 22 therefrom. Additional embodiments may employ other finishes or retaining means including, for example, double-sided tape.
DDDD:: Turning to FIG. 11B, radiation shield 22 is fitted over protective liner 10 and retained in position via securing areas 50. Any variety of fastening means, as described in the above embodiments, may be employed to retain protective liner 10 around the neck of the patient. Securing areas 50 facilitate retention of radiation shield 22 in position over protective liner 10 so that it does not easily move with respect to protective liner 10. When secured in the aforementioned manner, radiation shield 22 easily conforms to the shape of protective liner 10. Further, protective liner 10 protects the user from coming into contact with and possible contamination of radiation shield 22.
DDDD:: Disclosed embodiments of protective liner 10 may be packaged as individual liners, for example, aligned in a stacked configuration within a packaging container. The total number of protective liners 10 with the packaging container may be preselected prior to packaging. In another embodiment protective liner 10 may be stamped from a roll of material from which it is comprised (e.g., SMS fluid-repellent material) and perforated such that individual protective liners 10 may be separated from other protective liners 10 within the same roll. The stamping process may facilitate large production scale output of protective liners 10 to efficiently meet prescribed production demands. Suitable manufacturing equipment may be secured and employed to perform stamping and production operations, as necessary. Select packaging options for protective liner 10 may include shrink wrapping and/or polybagging. The material of protective liner 10 is generally foldable upon itself in any direction to facilitate storage and packaging for use. This includes any fluid repellent coating materials that may be applied to protective liner 10. There are no shelf life restrictions or claims imposed upon protective liner 10.
DDDD:: Thus, embodiments of the present invention provide a protective liner 10 that eliminates the need for cleaning and disinfecting radiation shields between patient use. Disclosed embodiments of protective liner 10 adequately protect the radiation shield 22 from being soiled. Protective liner 10 is applied and attached easily and comfortably to the patient. It remains attached through the radiological procedure and is easily removed from the patient after the procedure. Protective liner 10 is disposable and is sized to cover a full range of patient sizes and radiation shields. Embodiments of protective liner 10 are tear free and packaged to protect it from moisture and contamination. The material of protective liner 10 is printable, yet radiolucent. The material is also comfortable and does not make the patient feel claustrophobic. Disclosed embodiments of protective liner 10 offer no shelf life expiration. Material embodiments of protective liner 10 may include a soft, hypoallergenic, non-woven, latex-free, material.
DDDD:: Having described the many embodiments of the present invention in detail, it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Furthermore, it should be appreciated that all examples in the present disclosure, while illustrating many embodiments of the invention, are provided as non-limiting examples and are, therefore, not to be taken as limiting the various aspects so illustrated.
DDDD:: While the present invention has been disclosed with references to certain embodiments, numerous modifications, alterations and changes to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention, as defined in the appended claims. Accordingly, it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the described embodiments, but that it have the full scope defined by the language of the following claims and equivalents thereof.
DDDD:: Although the present invention has been fully described in conjunction with several embodiments thereof with reference to the accompanying drawings, it is to be understood that various changes and modifications may be apparent to those skilled in the art. Such changes and modifications are to be understood as included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims, unless such changes and modifications depart therefrom.
CLI :: 1. A protective liner comprising: a collar comprising: a main collar portion; a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction; a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction; a chest portion extending from the main collar portion; and an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension, the adjustable releasable fastener disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material.
CLD :: 2. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the adjustable releasable fastener joins the first extension and the second extension in an overlapped configuration.
CLD :: 3. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein an overall length of the main collar portion, the first extension and the second extension is adjustably set in the joined configuration.
CLD :: 4. The protective liner of claim 3, wherein the overall length is altered to create an adjusted length by adjusting a position of the first extension with respect to a position of the second extension.
CLD :: 5. The protective liner of claim 4, wherein the adjusted length is maintained by the adjustable releasable fastener.
CLD :: 6. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the collar is adjustable to accommodate a variety of sizes.
CLD :: 7. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the adjustable releasable fastener comprises a hook element disposed on an interior surface of the first extension and a loop element disposed on an exterior surface of the second extension.
CLD :: 8. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the adjustable releasable fastener comprises an adhesive element disposed on an interior surface of the first extension, wherein an exterior surface of the adhesive element is configured to join the exterior surface of the second extension.
CLD :: 9. The protective liner of claim 8, wherein the adhesive element comprises double-sided tape.
CLD :: 10. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 11. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the fluid repellent material comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 12. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the material is coated with a fluid repellent.
CLD :: 13. The protective liner of claim 12, wherein the fluid repellent comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 14. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the material is a soft, hypoallergenic, latex-free material.
CLD :: 15. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the material is printable.
CLD :: 16. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the material is pliable.
CLD :: 17. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the material is selected from a variety of colors including medical blue, green, white, purple and orange.
CLD :: 18. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the material is radiolucent.
CLD :: 19. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the material is disposable.
CLD :: 20. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the material is tear free.
CLD :: 21. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the collar and chest portion of the protective liner form a unitary configuration.
CLD :: 22. The protective liner of claim 21, wherein the material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 23. The protective liner of claim 22, wherein the material is coated with a fluid repellent.
CLD :: 24. The protective liner of claim 23, wherein the fluid repellent comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 25. The protective liner of claim 21, wherein the unitary configuration is stamped from a supply of material.
CLD :: 26. The protective liner of claim 25, wherein the supply of material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 27. The protective liner of claim 26, wherein the SMS material is coated with a fluid repellent.
CLD :: 28. The protective liner of claim 27, wherein the fluid repellent comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 29. The protective liner of claim 21, wherein the unitary configuration is perforated along a supply of material.
CLD :: 30. The protective liner of claim 29, wherein the supply of material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 31. The protective liner of claim 22, wherein the SMS material is coated with a fluid repellent.
CLD :: 32. The protective liner of claim 23, wherein the fluid repellent comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 33. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein each length of the first extension and the second extension is approximately 8.00 inches, an overall length of the first extension, the second extension and the main chest portion is approximately 24.00 inches, the thickness of the collar is approximately 3.00 inches, the length of the straight portion is approximately 5.00 inches, the width of the chest portion is approximately 8.00 inches, and the radius of the curved end portion is approximately 5.00 inches.
CLD :: 34. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the protective coating comprises an interior surface and an exterior surface, and a slip-resistant material applied to the exterior surface.
CLD :: 35. The protective liner of claim 34, wherein the slip-resistant material is applied to selective portions of the exterior surface.
CLD :: 36. The protective liner of claim 34, wherein the slip-resistant material is applied to the entirety of the exterior surface.
CLD :: 37. The protective liner of claim 34, wherein the slip-resistant material is an adhesive and/or a tactile finish.
CLD :: 38. The protective liner of claim 37, wherein the slip-resistant material comprises double-sided tape.
CLD :: 39. The protective liner of claim 34, wherein the slip-resistant material is sufficiently applied to support and maintain a radiation shield in position.
CLI :: 40. A protective liner comprising: a first material forming: a collar comprising: a main collar portion; a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction; a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction; a chest portion extending from the main collar portion; an adjustable releasable fastener for joining the first extension to the second extension, the adjustable releasable fastener disposed upon at least one of the first extension and second extension, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven material; and a second material coating a surface of the first material, wherein the second material is fluid repellent.
CLD :: 41. The protective liner of claim 40, wherein the first material comprises an interior surface and an exterior surface, and the second fluid repellent material coats the interior surface.
CLD :: 42. The protective liner of claim 40, wherein the first material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 43. The protective liner of claim 40, wherein the second material comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 44. The protective liner of claim 40, wherein the collar and chest portion of the first material form a unitary configuration.
CLD :: 45. The protective liner of claim 44, wherein the unitary configuration is stamped from a supply of the first material.
CLD :: 46. The protective liner of claim 45, wherein the supply of first material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 47. The protective liner of claim 46, wherein the second material comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 48. The protective liner of claim 44, wherein the unitary configuration is perforated along a supply of the first material.
CLD :: 49. The protective liner of claim 48, wherein the supply of the first material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 50. The protective liner of claim 49, wherein the second material comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 51. The protective liner of claim 41, wherein a slip-resistant material is applied to the exterior surface of the first material.
CLD :: 52. The protective liner of claim 51, wherein the slip-resistant material is applied to selective portions of the exterior surface.
CLD :: 53. The protective liner of claim 51, wherein the slip-resistant material is applied to the entirety of the exterior surface.
CLD :: 54. The protective liner of claim 51, wherein the slip-resistant material is an adhesive and/or a tactile finish.
CLD :: 55. The protective liner of claim 54, wherein the slip-resistant material comprises double-sided tape.
CLD :: 56. The protective liner of claim 51, wherein the slip-resistant material is sufficiently applied to support and maintain a radiation shield in position.
CLI :: 57. A protective liner comprising: a collar comprising: a main collar portion; a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction; a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction; a first tie extension extending from the first extension; a second tie extension extending from the second extension; and a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven, fluid repellent material.
CLD :: 58. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the first tie extension and the second tie extension join the a first extension and the second extension together.
CLD :: 59. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein an overall length of the main collar portion, the first extension and the second extension is adjustably set by joining the first tie extension to the second tie extension.
CLD :: 60. The protective liner of claim 59, wherein the overall length is altered to create an adjusted length by adjusting a position of the first extension with respect to a position of the second extension.
CLD :: 61. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the collar is adjustable to accommodate a variety of sizes.
CLD :: 62. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 63. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the fluid repellent material comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 64. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the material is coated with a fluid repellent.
CLD :: 65. The protective liner of claim 64, wherein the fluid repellent comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 66. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the material is a soft, hypoallergenic, latex-free material.
CLD :: 67. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the material is printable.
CLD :: 68. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the material is pliable.
CLD :: 69. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the material is selected from a variety of colors including medical blue, green, white, purple and orange.
CLD :: 70. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the material is radiolucent.
CLD :: 71. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the material is disposable.
CLD :: 72. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the material is tear free.
CLD :: 73. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the collar, the chest portion, the first tie extension and the second tie extension of the protective liner form a unitary configuration.
CLD :: 74. The protective liner of claim 73, wherein the material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 75. The protective liner of claim 74, wherein the material is coated with a fluid repellent.
CLD :: 76. The protective liner of claim 75, wherein the fluid repellent comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 77. The protective liner of claim 73, wherein the unitary configuration is stamped from a supply of material.
CLD :: 78. The protective liner of claim 77, wherein the supply of material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 79. The protective liner of claim 78, wherein the SMS material is coated with a fluid repellent.
CLD :: 80. The protective liner of claim 79, wherein the fluid repellent comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 81. The protective liner of claim 73, wherein the unitary configuration is perforated along a supply of material.
CLD :: 82. The protective liner of claim 81, wherein the supply of material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 83. The protective liner of claim 82, wherein the SMS material is coated with a fluid repellent.
CLD :: 84. The protective liner of claim 83, wherein the fluid repellent comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLI :: 85. A protective liner comprising: a first material forming: a collar comprising: a main collar portion; a first extension emanating from the main collar portion in a first direction; a second extension emanating from the main collar portion in a second direction opposite to the first direction; a first tie extension extending from the first extension; a second tie extension extending from the second extension; a chest portion extending from the main collar portion, wherein a material of the protective liner comprises a non-woven material; and a second material coating a surface of the first material, wherein the second material is fluid repellent.
CLD :: 86. The protective liner of claim 85, wherein the first material comprises an interior surface and an exterior surface, and the second fluid repellent material coats the interior surface.
CLD :: 87. The protective liner of claim 85, wherein the first material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 88. The protective liner of claim 85, wherein the second material comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 89. The protective liner of claim 85, wherein the collar and chest portion of the first material form a unitary configuration.
CLD :: 90. The protective liner of claim 89, wherein the unitary configuration is stamped from a supply of the first material.
CLD :: 91. The protective liner of claim 90, wherein the supply of first material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 92. The protective liner of claim 91, wherein the second material comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 93. The protective liner of claim 89, wherein the unitary configuration is perforated along a supply of the first material.
CLD :: 94. The protective liner of claim 93, wherein the supply of the first material comprises spun-melt-spun (SMS) material.
CLD :: 95. The protective liner of claim 94, wherein the second material comprises polypropylene and polyethylene laminate.
CLD :: 96. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the main collar portion covers a front region of a patient's neck.
CLD :: 97. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the chest portion extends down a front region of a patient's chest.
CLD :: 98. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the adjustable fastener is disposed at a dorsal region of a patient's neck.
CLD :: 99. The protective liner of claim 40, wherein the main collar portion covers a front region of a patient's neck.
CLD :: 100. The protective liner of claim 40, wherein the chest portion extends down a front region of a patient's chest.
CLD :: 101. The protective liner of claim 40, wherein the adjustable fastener is disposed at a dorsal region of a patient's neck.
CLD :: 102. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the main collar portion covers a front region of a patient's neck.
CLD :: 103. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the chest portion extends down a front region of a patient's chest.
CLD :: 104. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the adjustable fastener is disposed at a dorsal region of a patient's neck.
CLD :: 105. The protective liner of claim 85, wherein the main collar portion covers a front region of a patient's neck.
CLD :: 106. The protective liner of claim 85, wherein the chest portion extends down a front region of a patient's chest.
CLD :: 107. The protective liner of claim 85, wherein the adjustable fastener is disposed at a dorsal region of a patient's neck.
CLD :: 108. The protective liner of claim 1 further comprising a radiation device attached to the material.
CLD :: 109. The protective liner of claim 108, wherein the radiation device comprises a dosimeter.
CLD :: 110. The protective liner of claim 40 further comprising a radiation device attached to the material of the protective liner.
CLD :: 111. The protective liner of claim 110, wherein the radiation device comprises a dosimeter.
CLD :: 112. The protective liner of claim 57 further comprising a radiation device attached to the material.
CLD :: 113. The protective liner of claim 112, wherein the radiation device comprises a dosimeter.
CLD :: 114. The protective liner of claim 85 further comprising a radiation device attached to the material of the protective liner.
CLD :: 115. The protective liner of claim 114, wherein the radiation device comprises a dosimeter.
CLD :: 116. The protective liner of claim 1, wherein the chest portion extends downwardly from and substantially perpendicular to the main collar portion.
CLD :: 117. The protective liner of claim 40, wherein the chest portion extends downwardly from and substantially perpendicular to the main collar portion.
CLD :: 118. The protective liner of claim 57, wherein the chest portion extends downwardly from and substantially perpendicular to the main collar portion.
CLD :: 119. The protective liner of claim 85, wherein the chest portion extends downwardly from and substantially perpendicular to the main collar portion.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Drain and inlet member for drain
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661574
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 13144098
APDT:: 20090210
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 1848
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 1848
INVS:: LARSSON HAKAN
APLS:: LARSSON HAKAN
LREP:: TAROLLI, SUNDHEIM, COVELL & TUMMINO LLP
ASSE:: PURUS AB
EXMR:: GLESSNER BRIAN|STEPHAN BETH
NCLS:: 21
NCLI:: 2
NCLD:: 19
NFIG:: 8
DSCL:: 3006
SUML:: 266
BKGL:: 280
DDRL:: 365
DDSL:: 2631
CLFL:: 184
CLIL:: 185
CLDL:: 133
NREF:: 17
NRFA:: 11
NRFX:: 6
IPCC:: A-A-47-K-3-00-F-I
USCC::   4287|  4613||137362|  4613|  4613|405118|405 43|  4613| 523021|| 523023|| 523026|| 522201||210163-166|404  2-  5|405118||  4613||  4679||  4652||  4287|
SFLD::  523021| 523023| 523026| 522201|210163-166|404  2-  5|405118|  4613|  4679|  4652|  4287
RLDX:: XXX:20110303595:20111215
NRLD:: 1
NPRV:: 0
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: The present invention relates to a drain which comprises an inlet member (1), a grating (13) or cover plate laid loosely or detachably on top of the inlet member, and an outlet member (2). To achieve a short line of contact between the surface covering's sealing layer (6) and the drain while at the same time the sealing layer is fastened by means of a clamping ring (5) or a bonding flange, thereby reducing the risk of leakage and affording the possibility of connecting an aesthetically more pleasing inlet member (1), the inlet member (1) takes the form of an elongate or trilateral plate-like element (11) disposed on top of the sealing layer or the sealing layer (6) and the clamping ring (5) and provided with a recess (12) for flow communication with the outlet member (2). The present invention relates also to an inlet member (1) for a drain as above.
DHXX:: RELATED APPLICATION
DDXX:: This application corresponds to PCT/SE2009/0050134, filed Feb. 10, 2009, the subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference.
DHBK:: BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
DDBK:: The present invention relates to a drain.
DDBK:: The drain comprises an inlet member for connecting the drain to a surface covering, e.g. a floor covering, and an outlet member which is in flow communication with the inlet member in order to lead liquid via the inlet member from the surface covering to a drain system connected to the outlet member. The drain comprises also a grating or cover plate laid loosely or detachably on top of the inlet member.
DDBK:: The drain's outlet member has a seat for a clamping ring or a bonding flange in order thereby to clamp by means of the clamping ring or to adhesively bond on the bonding flange a sealing layer which is situated under the surface covering and leads down into, and is associated with, the outlet member, and an outlet stub which connects the outlet member to the drain system.
DDBK:: There are at present on the market a large number of mainly channel-like drains in different versions. These drains comprise substantially three elements, namely an inlet member in the form of a channel, an outlet member with or without water seal, and a frame with grating on top of the channel-like inlet member. The connection of a sealing layer to the channel-like inlet member is either by means of a bonding flange or by means of a clamping frame. The channel occupies a large volume and the sealing layer connection runs along the whole frame, entailing risk of leakage.
DDBK:: The present invention relates also an inlet member for a drain.
DHSM:: BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
DDSM:: The object of the present invention is to propose a drain with a shorter line of contact between the sealing layer and the drain while at the same time the sealing layer is fastened by means of a clamping ring. The result is less risk of leakage and the possibility of connecting an aesthetically more pleasing inlet member, e.g. an inlet member resembling a channel, to a conventional drain.
DDSM:: This object is achieved primarily by the inlet member as defined above being configured as an elongate or trilateral plate-like element disposed on top of the sealing layer, or the sealing layer and the clamping ring, and provided with a recess for flow communication with the outlet member.
DDSM:: The object of the present invention is also to propose an inlet member as above for use in the renovation of wet spaces with existing drains.
DDSM:: The fitting of the inlet member is substantially simplified by the plate-like element according to further versions of the invention taking the form of a separate element disposed loosely on top of the sealing layer or the sealing layer and the clamping ring and fixed at least laterally by means of the surface covering.
DDSM:: Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to one skilled in the art who studies the attached drawings and the following detailed description of a suitable embodiment thereof.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is an exploded view in perspective, cut away in the transverse direction, of a drain according to the present invention with one of a number of suitable versions of an inlet member according to the present invention for the drain.
DDDR:: FIG. 2 illustrates in perspective view, cut away in the longitudinal direction, the drain according to FIG. 1 with the inlet member thereto.
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is a cross-section through the drain according to FIG. 1.
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is an exploded view in perspective, cut away in the transverse direction, of an alternatively configured drain according to the present invention with the inlet member according to FIGS. 1-3.
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is an exploded view in perspective, cut away in the longitudinal direction, of the drain according to FIG. 4 with the inlet member according to FIGS. 1-4.
DDDR:: FIG. 6 is an alternative exploded view in perspective, cut away in the transverse direction, of the drain according to FIGS. 4 and 5 with the inlet member according to FIGS. 1-5.
DDDR:: FIG. 7 is an exploded view in perspective of a further alternative version of the drain according to the present invention with another version of the inlet member according to the present invention.
DDDR:: Lastly, FIG. 8 depicts a view in perspective of the drain according to FIG. 7 and the inlet member which forms part thereof.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
DDDD:: FIGS. 1-6 thus depict in transverse and longitudinal sections and in perspective two embodiments of a drain according to the present invention with one kind of inlet member, whereas FIGS. 7 and 8 depict a third embodiment of the drain with another kind of inlet member. The inlet members 1 of the drains are also part of the present invention. Each drain comprises not only the inlet member 1 but also an outlet member 2. The inlet member 1 is intended to connect the drain to an undepicted surface covering, e.g. a floor covering. The floor covering may for example consist of clinkers. The outlet member 2 is in flow communication with the inlet member 1 in order to lead liquid via the inlet member from the surface covering to a drain system (not depicted) which is connected to the outlet member.
DDDD:: The outlet member 2 may, as in the drawings, have a seat 4 for a clamping ring 5 or alternatively have a bonding flange. In order thereby to clamp by means of the clamping ring or to adhesively bond on the bonding flange a sealing layer 6 which is situated under the surface covering and leads down into, and is associated with, the outlet member. The outlet member 2 also has an outlet stub 7 which connects the outlet member to the drain system. The seat 4 for the clamping ring 5 or the bonding flange delineates an inlet to the outlet member 2 via which the outlet member is in flow communication with the inlet member 1. In the drain version depicted in FIGS. 1-3, the seat 4 of the outlet member 2 for the clamping ring 5 (or for the bonding flange of the outlet member) and the outlet stub 7 take the form of two separate elements 2a, 2b of the outlet member. In the version depicted, these two elements 2a, 2b of the seat 4 for the clamping ring 5 (or for the bonding flange) and the outlet stub 7 are connected to one another by a snap connection 8, but they may also be connected together in some other way or simply be formed integrally. The outlet member 2 is also suitably configured or provided with a water seal unit (not depicted) of a suitable type depending on, for example, whether the drain's outlet member 2 has a laterally directed outlet stub 7 as in the drawings or alternatively the drain is bottom-emptying. The outlet member 2, the seat 4 for the clamping ring and the clamping ring 5, or the bonding flange, and the inlet to the outlet member which is delineated by the seat or the bonding flange are substantially circular, as in FIGS. 4-6, or of elliptical configuration as in the version according to FIGS. 1-3, but they may also be of any other suitable shape. In FIGS. 4-6, the outlet member 2, the seat 4 for the clamping ring and the clamping ring 5 are therefore substantially circular, but the clamping ring is supplemented by an insert 5a with an elliptical aperture. This arrangement makes it easy to connect an inlet member 1 which has an elliptical aperture or recess to an existing older drain with a circular seat 4 for a clamping ring 5. The clamping ring 5 may if so desired be snapped firmly to the seat 4 (at 5b), just as the clamping ring unit 5a may be snapped firmly to the clamping ring. The water seal unit may also be of circular or elliptical or some other suitable shape. The water seal unit may also itself be formed of two elements connected to one another by, for example, a snap connection.
DDDD:: The inlet member 1 according to the invention takes the form of a plate-like element 11 which is elongated (FIGS. 1-6) or trilateral (FIGS. 7 and 8), disposed on top of the sealing layer or the sealing layer 6 and the clamping ring 5 and provided with a recess 12 for flow communication with the outlet member 2. The recess 12 in the version according to FIGS. 1-3 is of elliptical shape corresponding to the outlet member 2 and, above all, corresponding to the seat 4 for the clamping ring 5 (or the bonding flange) thereon and/or the inlet to the outlet member which is delineated by the seat (or by the bonding flange). In the version according to FIGS. 4-3, the recess 12 is also of elliptical shape corresponding to the clamping ring insert 5a. The recess 12 may of course also be of circular configuration or any other suitable shape. The version described above of the drain's inlet and outlet members 1, 2 achieves, as previously mentioned, a short line of contact between the sealing layer 6 and the drain while at the same time the sealing layer is fastened by the clamping ring 5 (or is bonded firmly to the bonding flange), thereby reducing the risk of leakage and affording the possibility of connecting an aesthetically more pleasing inlet member 1, e.g. an inlet member resembling a channel, to even a conventional drain.
DDDD:: It is possible to connect to the elliptically configured recess 12 in the plate-like element 11 in the versions depicted a runoff portion (not depicted) which leads from the recess down into the outlet member 2.
DDDD:: Lastly, the drain comprises also a grating 13 or cover plate (not depicted) laid loosely or detachably on top of the inlet member 1. The plate-like element 11 or the cover plate thus laid loosely or detachably on top of the inlet member 1 in the form of the plate-like element 11 may be of a type with substantially -shaped cross-section so that the grating or the cover plate rests via the side limbs 13a on the plate-like element 11, thereby delineating an intermediate space for liquid flow between the plate-like element 11 and the web portion 13b of the grating or the cover plate. At least the cover plate's side limbs have apertures or recesses or take the form of mutually spaced legs, e.g. one leg at at least each corner of a rectangular cover plate, to allow liquid to pass. The web portion 13b of the grating 13 also has perforations 14 in a suitably functional and aesthetically pleasing version for liquid to pass from the surface covering down to the plate-like element 11. The grating 13 or the cover plate may in an alternative undepicted version thereof be entirely planar and the plate-like element 11 may instead be provided with, for example, a peripheral spacer for primarily the grating or a number of shorter spacers for both the grating and the cover plate. The combined height of the spacer or spacers and the grating 13 or the cover plate corresponds substantially to the height of the surface covering. The spacer or spacers may be disposed on or be integral with the plate-like element 11.
DDDD:: The plate-like element 11 or at least its upper side may with advantage be configured to slope towards the recess 12 to facilitate the runoff of liquid down into the outlet member 2. The recess 12 in the versions depicted in FIGS. 1-6 is disposed centrally in the elongate plate-like element 11 in the latter's longitudinal direction, but may of course alternatively be disposed nearer to one or other end of the elongate plate-like element 11.
DDDD:: The plate-like element 11 in the versions depicted in FIGS. 1-6 is of substantially rectangular shape. The plate-like element 11 may thus be configured with length and width corresponding to the length and width of conventional drain channels. In FIGS. 7 and 8, the plate-like element 11 is trilateral.
DDDD:: The plate-like element 11 in the drawings takes the form of a separate element disposed loosely on top of the sealing layer or the sealing layer 6 and the clamping ring 5. Separate here means that the inlet member 1 is in no way assembled with, i.e. screwed or snapped to, the outlet member 2. Nor is the inlet member 1 in the version depicted in any way fastened to the sealing layer 6. The inlet member 1 can therefore with advantage also easily be fitted alone to existing drains, e.g. in wet spaces being renovated or at least being provided with a new surface covering, without it being necessary to remove existing drain parts which are, for example, cast in or fastened in some other way in the floor structure. The plate-like element 11 may instead, in order to be assembled with the outlet member 2 or fastened to the sealing layer 6, be so configured that it is kept at least laterally fixed by the surface covering. The plate-like element 11 and/or the grating 13 may thus be prevented from being dislaid horizontally by the surface covering, e.g. said clinkers. The surface covering or the grating 13 or the cover plate may in such cases be of the same size, i.e. in the versions depicted in FIGS. 1-6 they may be of the same width and the same length. If on the contrary it is desired that it should not be possible to pull up the plate-like element 11, the latter, in the versions depicted in FIGS. 1-6, may for example be configured so much wider and/or so much longer than the grating 13 or the cover plate as to make it possible for the surface covering to be laid on top of portions of the plate-like element which protrude beyond the grating or the cover plate. It should be noted here that where a cover plate is used, the plate-like element 11 in the versions depicted in FIGS. 1-6 should with advantage always be at least somewhat wider to create at least one runoff slit in at least the longitudinal direction of the plate-like element and the cover plate. The height of the grating 13 or the cover plate is substantially the same as the height of the surface covering, i.e. the height of the side limbs 13a or legs of the grating 13 or the cover plate is substantially the same as the height of the surface covering.
DDDD:: To further ensure reliable runoff without leakage, the plate-like element 11 may be provided with a peripheral elevation 15 within which the grating 13 or the cover plate is laid loosely or detachably. This peripheral elevation 15 is of substantially the same height as the grating 13 or the cover plate and thus also of substantially the same height as the surface covering, i.e. a height of about 4-7 mm in the case of a surface covering composed of clinkers.
DDDD:: The peripheral elevation 15 delineates an elongate space running in the longitudinal direction of the plate-like element 11, or a trilateral space, for the grating 13 or the cover plate. In the elongate versions of the plate-like element 11 depicted in FIGS. 1-6, this space is substantially rectangular, whereas in the version according to FIGS. 7 and 8 it is trilateral.
DDDD:: The peripheral elevation 15 may be disposed on or be integral with the plate-like element 11. The elevation 15 may, as in the versions depicted in the drawings, take the form of a suitably shaped profile 16 or quite simply take the form of a flange extending substantially vertically upwards from the plate-like element 11. The elevation 15 has on the outside in the versions depicted, on its side which faces away from the space for the grating 13 or the cover plate, a flange 17 extending substantially horizontally outwards. This flange 17 is used as a fastening or contact surface on which the surface covering is laid for fixing the plate-like element 11 not only laterally but also so that the surface covering prevents pulling up of the plate-like element 11. An effective leak-free connection between the plate-like element 11 and the surface covering is thus achieved. The flange 17 may, as depicted in the drawings, may be peripheral, it may as also depicted in the drawings run along the long or short sides of the plate-like element 11 or there may be a plurality of shorter flange portions round the elevation. A second flange 18 or shorter flange portions for the grating 13 or the cover plate may be disposed at a suitable height on the inside of the profile 16 or the like in cases where, for example, the grating or the cover plate has shorter side limbs or legs or in cases where the grating or the cover plate is entirely planar.
DDDD:: Where a cover plate is used on top of the plate-like element 11, the size of the space delineated by the peripheral elevation 15 in which the cover plate is laid may, as above, exceed the size of the cover plate to create a slit between the elevation and the cover plate. In the versions depicted in FIGS. 1-6, it is therefore advantageous that at least the width of the space should exceed the width of the cover plate so that a longitudinal slit is formed on two sides between the elevation 15 and the cover plate.
DDDD:: The peripheral elevation 15 may alternatively constitute a spacer as above for a substantially planar grating 13, in which case the grating is therefore laid on top of the elevation.
DDDD:: One or more spacers as above for a substantially planar grating or cover plate may also be disposed within the peripheral elevation 15, in the space delineated by the latter, in which case the elevation is with advantage used exclusively for, for example, tight and effective connection to a surrounding surface covering.
DDDD:: It will be obvious to one skilled in the art that in addition to what is indicated above the present invention may be modified or altered within the scope of the claims set out below without departing from the idea and objects of the invention. Thus, for example, the drain's constituent inlet and outlet members, the grating or the cover plate and the inlet member itself may be made of plastic or metal. They may of course also vary in size depending on the application. The runoff portion of the plate-like element, the spacer or spacers for it, the elevation etc. may be configured in many different ways.
CLI :: 1. A drain system comprising: an inlet member (1) having an opening therein and a floor covering, the inlet member opening provides a flow communication between the floor covering and a drain, one of a grating (13) and cover plate on top of the inlet member, an outlet member (2) below and in flow communication with the inlet member to allow liquid to flow thru the opening in the inlet member from the floor covering to the outlet member, the outlet member has a seat (4), a clamping ring (5), and a sealing layer below the floor covering and above the outlet member, the clamping ring clamping the sealing layer between the seat and the clamping ring, the sealing layer (6) extends down into the outlet member, and an outlet stub (7) which connects the outlet member to the drain, wherein the inlet member (1) comprises an element (11) disposed on top of the sealing layer (6) and the clamping ring (5) and provided with a peripheral elevation (15) for lateral fixation of the inlet member by means of the floor covering, and provided with a recess (12) for flow communication with the outlet member (2).
CLD :: 2. A drain system according to claim 1, wherein the element (11) is of substantially rectangular shape.
CLD :: 3. A drain system according to claim 1, wherein the drain is a floor drain with the inlet member (1) kept substantially laterally fixed by the floor covering comprising clinkers.
CLD :: 4. A drain system according to claim 1, wherein the element (11) is configured to slope towards the recess (12).
CLD :: 5. A drain system according to claim 1, wherein the element (11) has a runoff portion leading from the recess (12) down into the outlet member (2).
CLD :: 6. A drain system according to claim 1, wherein the element (11) has at least one spacers for the one of the grating (13) and the cover plate.
CLD :: 7. A drain system according to claim 1, wherein the peripheral elevation (15) is configured for detachable location of the one of the grating (13) and the cover plate on top thereof.
CLD :: 8. A drain system according to claim 1, wherein the peripheral elevation (15 is configured for detachable location of the one of the grating (13) and the cover plate within said peripheral elevation.
CLD :: 9. A drain system according to claim 8, wherein the peripheral elevation (15) is of substantially the same height as the one of the grating (13) and the cover plate.
CLD :: 10. A drain system according to claim 7, wherein the height of the peripheral elevation (15) is substantially the same as the height of the floor covering.
CLD :: 11. A drain system according to claim 8, wherein the peripheral elevation (15) delineates a space running in the longitudinal direction of the element (11) for the one of the grating (13) and the cover plate.
CLD :: 12. A drain system according to claim 11, wherein the space, delineated by the peripheral elevation (15) is substantially rectangular.
CLD :: 13. A drain system according to claim 11, wherein the size of the space delineated by the peripheral elevation (15) exceeds the size of the cover plate laid in the space, in order to create a slit between said elevation and the cover plate.
CLD :: 14. A drain system according to claim 1, wherein the seat extends radially inwardly from a first cylindrical portion of the outlet member.
CLD :: 15. A drain system according to claim 14, wherein the clamping ring has a radially outer surface engaging the sealing layer clamping the sealing layer to the seat.
CLD :: 16. A drain system according to claim 14, wherein the outlet member includes a first element having the seat and a second element, the first cylindrical portion extending into and coaxially with a second cylindrical portion of the second element.
CLD :: 17. A drain system according to claim 16, wherein the first element has a snap connection with the second element.
CLD :: 18. A drain system according to claim 1, wherein the clamping ring has a snap connection with the outlet member.
CLI :: 19. A drain system, comprising: an inlet member, a floor covering, and a sealing layer below the floor covering, the inlet member having an opening providing flow communication between the floor covering and a drain, the inlet member including an element disposed on top of the sealing layer; one of a grating and a cover plate on top of the inlet member; an outlet member in flow communication with the opening in the element, the outlet member having a recess providing flow communication from the floor covering to the drain; and a clamping ring extending into a seat of the outlet member, the clamping ring clamping the sealing layer between the seat and the clamping ring and clamping the sealing layer to the outlet member so that the sealing layer extends down into the outlet member.
CLD :: 20. A drain system according to claim 19, wherein the seat extends radially inwardly from a first cylindrical portion of the outlet member, the clamping ring having a radially outer surface engaging the sealing layer clamping the sealing layer to the seat.
CLD :: 21. A drain system according to claim 20, wherein the outlet member includes a first element having the seat and a second element, the first cylindrical portion extending into and coaxially with a second cylindrical portion of the second element, the first element having a snap connection with the second element, the clamping ring having a snap connection with the first element of the outlet member.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Swimming pool cover and associated opening and closing mechanism
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661575
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 10596039
APDT:: 20041125
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 3386
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 3386
INVS:: CHAPUS CHARLES
APLS:: CHAPUS CHARLES
LREP:: JACKSON PATENT LAW OFFICE
ASSE:: ABRISUD
EXMR:: LE HUYEN|DEERY ERIN
NCLS:: 24
NCLI:: 1
NCLD:: 23
NFIG:: 26
DSCL:: 6577
SUML:: 0
BKGL:: 0
DDRL:: 6306
DDSL:: 0
CLFL:: 376
CLIL:: 377
CLDL:: 177
NREF:: 12
NRFA:: 5
NRFX:: 7
IPCC:: A-E-04-H-4-00-F-I
USCC::   4500|  4498| 52 66| 52 67||  4498| 52 66| 52 66|  4498| 52 66| 52 66| 52 67|  4498||  4500||  4503|| 52 66|| 52 67||220  8||220602||220212|
SFLD::   4498|  4500|  4503| 52 66| 52 67|220  8|220602|220212
RLDX:: XXX:20080263759:20081030
NRLD:: 1
NPRV:: 0
NPCT:: 0
ABST:: Disclosed is a pool opening to be exposed and/or concealed based on low profile covers constituted by roof components juxtaposed in the direction of the length of the swimming pool and each comprising a cover in a translucent material and a rigid frame formed of two arches placed in transverse planes and braced by longitudinal crosspieces with two end crosspieces delimiting two longitudinal parallel edges to the roof component and which rest on the longitudinal edges of the pool of said swimming pool defining a support surface, the system comprising a storage area located at an end of said pool said storage area being sufficient to accommodate the ground surface of a roof component allowing said roof components to be stored in a stacked way, all of said storage area being horizontally displaced from said pool opening, a wheel configured to mobilize said roof components allowing said roof components to be displaced horizontally along the pool towards and/or away from said storage area, a lifter in the storage area, the lifter being configured to engage said roof components to vertically displace said roof components said storage area, to position one roof component over another roof component in a stacked position.
DHXX:: TECHNICAL FIELD
DDXX:: The present invention has to do with building structures intended to cover, wholly or in part, a ground surface such as that delimited by a pool and relates more particularly to a provisional roof structure for a swimming pool constituted from a series of so-called roof components placed side-by-side so as to cover the pool longitudinally. In fact, the particular purpose of the invention is the different adaptations that allow a pool to be concealed and/or exposed rapidly and with the least possible amount of handling.
DHXX:: DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART
DDXX:: There are in the prior art several types of swimming pool covers, but the invention mostly applies to covers which, more commonly called "low profile covers", are composed of roof components placed juxtaposed over the length of the swimming pool and each performing a rotary movement on one of their longitudinal edges in order to part and thus give access to the water in the pool. In order to understand the invention more clearly, it is useful to state that the longitudinal, transverse and lateral positions of the roof components and/or of their constituent parts are considered relative to the longitudinal, lateral and transverse axes of the pool being considered in the context of the present invention as adopting a substantially rectangular configuration. These juxtaposed roof components are of the type of those which are each composed of a cover formed of panels of a translucent material such as polycarbonate with a double wall and a rigid frame, that is light and resistant to support the transparent cover, said frame being formed of arches placed in transverse planes and braced by crosspieces with two longitudinal end crosspieces delimiting two longitudinal edges to the roof component. These two longitudinal edges rest on the rims of the pool defining a support surface for said interlocked roof components, and are held there by means of fixing lugs which are anchored in a removable way in the surfaces supporting these components conventionally constituted by the longitudinal rims or copings of the pool.
DDXX:: In order to partially expose this swimming pool and to be able to use it in the open air, particularly in the spring as soon as the climate or the temperature allows it, the roof components of this swimming pool cover are often mounted to be individually half-openable so as to modulate the pool opening outwards. To this end, at least one of the longitudinal edges of the frame of the roof components is thus mounted articulated around the fixing lugs anchored in the support edges of the pool in a transverse angular plane of expansion, and the other edge is intended to receive two props the heads of which penetrate into each end of the edge and the feet are supported on the support edges of the pool so as to wedge said props between the edges of the pool and said roof component which is thus held inclined relative to the ground, in the half-open position required. This device for holding a roof component in respect of low profile covers in a half-open position has constraints in that:
DDXX:: it restricts the exposure of the swimming pool to said half-open position,
DDXX:: it requires, for its handling, the use of two props as lever arms for each of the roof components,
DDXX:: it often needs two people to be involved in order to lift each roof component,
DDXX:: it offers the half-open roof components a significant wind catch which tends to destabilise them,
DDXX:: it takes a relatively long time to install and, or uninstall for several roof components,
DDXX:: etc.
DDXX:: Many improvements have been made over recent years in order to simplify the operation of lifting the roof components by using a prop mounted to slide in the edge in order to act as a lever by exerting an upward force on the middle of the edge, or by using different lifting systems to minimise effort.
DDXX:: Despite these different innovations allowing the transfer of the roof components from a closed position to a half-open position to be substantially improved by sparing the user as far as possible the efforts to be exerted during this operation, the applicant has noted that opening the roof components constituting the swimming pool roof still remained a difficult handling operation, although simplified by the very fact of the weight of said roof components. This handling even becomes a real difficulty when the swimming pool and therefore the roof components covering it are of large dimensions or it is necessary to raise a number of them.
DDXX:: Moreover, in the summer period of so-called full use of the pool, fully exposing the pool covered by such so-called low profile cover roof components requires them to be removed manually one by one so that they can be conveyed to a storage area situated away from the pool and often even far away from it for reasons of aesthetics and clutter. Conversely in the winter period of so-called non-use in order to cover the pool back up again, these same roof components will be conveyed from their storage area to the pool which they will cover in such a way as to seal the opening thereof. These laying and/or removal operations constitute by no means inconsiderable handling problems which require the intervention of at least two people, the provision of a relatively substantial storage area not to mention the considerable physical effort that has to be exerted to displace roof components of this kind.
DHXX:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
DDXX:: Starting from this state of affairs, the applicant has conducted research which has led to a new swimming pool roof concept that reconciles the advantages of low profile covers preferably with juxtaposed and articulated roof components with those of high profile covers with telescopic roof components.
DDXX:: To this end, the invention proposes the implementation of a device which, since it allows a pool opening to be exposed and/or concealed automatically and easily based on low profile covers constituted by juxtaposed and articulated roof components of the type described above, includes:
DDXX:: storage means located at one end of said pool and allowing said roof components to be stored in a stacked way,
DDXX:: means of mobilising said roof components that allow them to be displaced horizontally along the pool towards and/or away from said storage means,
DDXX:: stowing means allowing the aforementioned roof components disengaged from the pool to be placed in the aforementioned storage means and in a stacked position,
DDXX:: and means of connecting said roof components to each other, indissociable on the one hand so as to secure them to each other in order to form a roof component train able to be displaced integrally and horizontally along said pool, and dissociable one from another on the other hand, to allow the vertical displacement of said roof components for the purpose of stacking them in the aforementioned storage means.
DDXX:: When the aforementioned roof components are of the type such that at least one of its longitudinal edges is mounted articulated relative to the support edge of the pool, an articulation relative to which it swivels in order to transfer from a closed position to a half-open position and vice versa, the device of the invention offers a great advantage by giving the dual possibility of exposing the pool either on one side or other of the longitudinal plane of the pool by tilting the roof components and on one side or other of the transverse plane of the swimming pool by the displacement of a roof component train which are stacked in the storage means which, located at one end of the pool, present themselves, according to one preferential embodiment of the invention, in the form of a storage area corresponding to at least the ground surface of one roof component and to which said roof components will be admitted.
DDXX:: Additionally, the fact of associating several roof components one behind the other and of making them mobile along the pool in the form of a train by means of running gear provided on the two longitudinal parallel edges of each roofing element which will slide by running on the longitudinal edges of the pool, allows, by associating with them at least one motor-drive roller which, when judiciously placed at the input of the aforementioned storage means and being supported on the aforementioned roof component train, will be able to make them run automatically in a direction outwards from the pool in the direction of the storage area of said storage means in order to expose the pool which they were covering and to store them in the storage area in a stacked way and, in the other direction, inwards to the pool so as to discharge them from the storage area and to make them run in the form of a train of juxtaposed roof components to conceal the pool opening.
DDXX:: Thus, each roof component entering the storage means will then be lifted vertically at the same time as the others so that it can be stacked with the stack being fed from underneath.
DDXX:: Although the fundamental concepts of the invention have been mentioned above in their most elementary form, other details and characteristics of the invention will emerge more clearly from reading the following description which gives as a non-restrictive example and with reference to the appended drawings, an embodiment of a swimming pool roof fitted with a device in accordance with the invention that allows this pool opening to be exposed and/or concealed based on low profile covers constituted by juxtaposed roof components.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is an isometric perspective view of a swimming pool roof in respect of low profile covers of conventional design and shown in the closed position.
DDDR:: FIG. 2 is an isometric perspective view of the swimming pool roof in the drawing in FIG. 1, shown in the partially half-open position.
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is an isometric perspective view of a swimming pool roof according to the concept of the invention and shown in the closed position.
DDDR:: FIGS. 4, 5 and 6 are isometric perspective views of the swimming pool roof of the drawing in FIG. 3, in three positions of progressive exposure of the pool.
DDDR:: FIG. 7 is a vertical partial cross-section view of a swimming pool roof component showing one of the two longitudinal edges fitted with a component of the device of the invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 8 is a diagrammatic view in vertical cross-section at the end of the swimming pool roof as shown in the drawing in FIG. 4 and shows a first embodiment of the stowing means.
DDDR:: FIG. 9 is a diagrammatic view in vertical cross-section at the end of the swimming pool roof as shown in the drawing in FIG. 5 with the same embodiment of the stowing means as that shown in FIG. 8.
DDDR:: FIGS. 10a and 10b are partial perspective views of two contiguous arches of two swimming pool roof components shown respectively at one and the same level associated one with the other and at an offset level so as to be dissociated one from the other.
DDDR:: FIGS. 11a, 11b, 11c are diagrammatic drawings of a vertical partial cross-section view at the end of the roof showing a second embodiment of the stowing means.
DDDR:: FIG. 12 is a detailed diagrammatic drawing of a partially exploded external perspective view of a stowing means solution and a mobility means solution.
DDDR:: FIGS. 13a, 13b, 13c, 13d are diagrammatic drawings of a partial cross-section view showing the operation of the stowing means shown in FIG. 12.
DDDR:: FIGS. 14a, 14b, 14c are diagrammatic drawings of a view from above of an embodiment of a device in accordance with the invention showing another mobility means and stowing means solution.
DDDR:: FIGS. 15a, 15b, 15c and 15d are diagrammatic drawings in a side view of a device in accordance with the invention showing the operation of the stowing means shown in FIGS. 14a, 14b and 14c.
DHDR:: DESCRIPTION BASED ON THE DRAWINGS
DDDR:: The drawing in FIG. 1 shows a prior art swimming pool roof more commonly called a low profile cover and shown in the closed position. This roof, given the reference T throughout, is conventionally constituted by a series of three roof components I of the type wherein they are each composed of a cover formed of panels in a translucent material 100 such as polycarbonate with a double wall and with a rigid light and resistant frame 200 in the form of arches 210 placed in transverse planes and braced by crosspieces 220 so as to support said cover. The two end cross-pieces 220 of the frame delimit two parallel longitudinal edges 220a and 220b to the roof components I which are held on the longitudinal edges S of the pool defining a support surface, by means of fixing lugs given the references 300a and 300b respectively and being anchored in a removable way in said edges S or in the copings capping said edges.
DDDR:: As can be seen in the drawing in FIG. 2, one (the central one) of the roof components I is shown in the half-open position thus allowing the pool to be partially exposed. To this end, one (220a) of the two longitudinal edges of the frame of this roof component is released from its fixing lugs 300a thus allowing said roof component I a tilting movement on its second edge 220b around the two fixing lugs 300b, according to an angular expansion (symbolised by the arrow A) in a plane transverse to the pool. The roof component I is held in this half-open position by means of two struts formed by props 400 the heads 410 of which enter each end of the edge 220a and the feet 420 of which are supported on the longitudinal edges S of the pool in which they are anchored in place and instead of the fixing lugs 300a which have just been released.
DDDR:: The drawings in FIGS. 3, 4, 5 and 6 show a new swimming pool roof concept with now four (this number of four is given only as an illustrative example and to clarify the drawings) roof components I of the low profile cover type articulated like those shown in the drawings in FIGS. 1 and 2 but fitted with the device of the invention allowing the pool opening to be exposed and/or concealed without any handling operation of installation, removing or transporting said roof components I.
DDDR:: To this end, the device of the invention includes a set of means which, when judiciously combined together, are responsible in an autonomous way for displacing and stowing the roof components I allowing the pool opening to be exposed (cf. FIG. 6) and/or concealed (cf. FIG. 3), without any manual intervention.
DDDR:: The first so-called storage means 600 are located at one end of said pool and are used to store the roof components I in a stacked way, as shown in the drawings in FIGS. 5 and 6. These storage means 600 are presented to this end in the form of a storage area of a size such that said roof components I can be admitted to it.
DDDR:: The second so-called mobility means allow a said roof components I to be displaced horizontally along the pool towards (arrow H) and/or away from (reverse direction of the arrow H) the storage means 600. These mobility means are presented to this end in the form:
DDDR:: on the one hand, of running gear 710a (shown in more detail in the drawing in FIG. 7) and which, distributed over the width of the two parallel longitudinal edges 220a and 220b of each roof component I, ensure the free displacement (arrow H) of the edges 220a and 220b along the edge S, and therefore of the whole of the roof component I associated with it,
DDDR:: and on the other hand, by at least one 720a (as shown in the drawing in FIG. 7) but preferably two motor-drive rollers which, placed at the input of said storage means 600, are supported on the roof component I present in front of them so as to make it run either in the direction of the arrow H to make it completely enter (cf. FIG. 4) the storage area of the storage means 600 so as to disengage it from the pool which it was covering and to store it in the storage area 600 in a stacked way or, in the other reverse direction to that of the arrow H, inwards towards the pool, so as to discharge it from the storage area 600 by pushing the other roof components I which, in the form of a train of juxtaposed roof components will gradually cover the pool opening.
DDDR:: Thus, the two longitudinal edges 220a and 220b of the roof components I rest of the edge of the pool S via the running gear 710a allowing, once the fixing lugs 300a and 300b have been released from their anchoring in the aforementioned support edge S, the roof components I (arrow H) to be freely displaced towards the storage area 600 of the storage means. This evolution (arrow H) of the roof components I from an intermediate position shown in FIG. 4 to a more advanced position shown in FIG. 6, allows the pool to be gradually exposed at one of its ends. Although not shown, it should be noted that the roof component train I will be displaced (arrow H) along the support edge S but outwards from the pool fully stacked in the storage area 600, so as to fully expose the pool.
DDDR:: Conversely, by displacing the roof component train I in the reverse direction from that of the arrow H along the support edge S but inwards towards the pool, the roof component train I will gradually re-cover and seal the pool.
DDDR:: According to one particular adaptation of the invention, the two motor-drive rollers (only one of which 720a is shown in the drawing in FIG. 7) ensuring the horizontal displacements (arrow H) of the roof components, have their axes of rotation 721a placed substantially inclined relative to the vertical and inwards towards the pool in such a way that the treads 723a of said motor rollers are supported on the longitudinal edges 220a and 220b of the roof components I while guiding said roof components I in the storage area 600.
DDDR:: According to another particularly advantageous characteristic of the invention showed in FIGS. 12, 13a, 13b, 13c, 13d, the mobility means are presented in the form:
DDDR:: on the one hand, of said running gear 710a and which, distributed over the width of the two parallel longitudinal edges 220a and 220b of each roof component I, ensure the free displacement (arrow H) of the edges 220a and 220b along the edge S, and therefore of the whole of the roof component I associated with it,
DDDR:: and on the other hand, by at least one translation mobilisation means 730a of the pinion 731a/rack 732a type. The pinion 731a is drawn into rotation by a fixed geared motor unit and the rack 732a is as shown integral with the longitudinal edge of the roof component. According to the embodiment shown, the rack 732a is integrated with the lateral edges. These pinions, of which only 731a is shown, are placed at the input of said storage means 600. They become enmeshed with the racks integral with the roof component I present in front of them so as to make it run according to their direction of rotation either in the direction of the arrow H in order to make it completely enter (cf. FIG. 4) the storage area 600 in order to disengage it from the pool which it was covering and to store it in the storage area 600 a stacked way or, in the other direction reverse to that of the arrow H, inwards towards the pool so as to discharge it from the storage area 600 by pushing the other roof components I which, in the form of a train of juxtaposed roof components, will gradually cover the pool opening.
DDDR:: According to one particularly advantageous characteristic, the storage means 600 are to advantage fitted with components that not only act as a mechanical stop unit 610 for the roof components I in their translatory motion towards the storage area 600 but also act as a guide during their translation from top to bottom and from bottom to top during the elevation or descent phase. This characteristic ensures the longitudinal positioning of the roof components when they are in the storage area 600.
DDDR:: According to another particularly advantageous characteristic of the invention shown in FIGS. 14a, 14b and 14c, the mobility means are presented to this end in the form:
DDDR:: on the one hand, of said running gear 710a (shown in more detail in the drawing in FIG. 7) and which, distributed over the width of the two parallel longitudinal edges 220a and 220b of each roof component I, ensure the free displacement (arrow H) of the edges 220a and 220b along the edge S, and therefore of the whole of the roof component I associated with it,
DDDR:: and on the other hand, by at least one but preferably two horizontal motor endless strips 740a and 740b, which, placed at the input of the aforementioned storage means 600, engage with the roof component I present in front of them so as to make it run either in the direction of the arrow H to make it completely enter the storage area of the storage means 600 so as to disengage it from the pool which it was covering and to store it in the storage area 600 in a stacked way or, in the other direction reverse to that of the arrow H, inwards towards the pool so as to discharge it from the storage area 600 by pushing the other roof components I which, in the form of a train of juxtaposed roof components, will gradually cover the pool opening.
DDDR:: According to a preferred embodiment, the engagement between the horizontal motor strips and the roof components is made by means of pins 230a and 230b integral with the roof components and which grip the endless horizontal motor strips 740a and 740b which are equipped with fastening means provided to this end.
DDDR:: The function of the third means 800 (shown in FIGS. 8 and 9) the so-called stowing means is to stow the roof components I in the storage area 600 and in a stacked position, under the effect of the horizontal displacement (arrow H) of the roof components I by the motor-drive rollers 720a.
DDDR:: According to one particularly advantageous characteristic of the invention as shown in FIGS. 8, 9 and 11a, 11b, 11c, these stowing means 800 are, to this end, constituted by a support frame acting as a framework for at least two conveyors 810a and 810b which, placed in the storage area 600 on either side of the stack of stacked up roof components I, are able to grip and vertically displace (arrow V), in the storage area 600, each roof component I in an upward movement so as to store them stacked one on top of the other but by feeding them one underneath the other and in a downward movement (reverse to that of the arrow V) so as to lay them on the longitudinal edges of the pool in order to juxtapose them one next to the other. These two conveyors 810a and 810b are each constituted by an endless strip drawn in rotation (arrows R) around two return cylinders not shown in the upper and lower part of the conveyors 810a and 810b and one of which is a drive cylinder to drive the endless strip around said cylinders.
DDDR:: According to a first embodiment and in accordance with the invention, the two endless strips 810a and 810b are provided over their widths with at least one chain of gripping mechanisms 811a and 811b placed opposite each other for each endless strip 810a and 810b so as to engage simultaneously (as can be seen in the drawing in FIGS. 8 and 9) with the two longitudinal parallel edges 220a and 220b of each roof component I which is presented between them in the storage area 600. These gripping mechanisms 811a and 811b are, according to an embodiment of the invention shown in more detail in the drawing in FIG. 7, embodied in hooks which are, on the one hand, evenly spaced out by a pitch "p" one from the other, and, on the other hand, adapted so as to engage with corresponding fastening means 221a (for example hooks turned downwards) on the longitudinal parallel edges 220a and 220b of the roof components I through the rotation (arrow R) of the endless strips 810a and 810b which ensure a linear vertical displacement (arrow V) of the hooks 811a and 811b associated with it over the rectilinear portion of said strips. Thus, by activating with a pitch "p" the pitch-by-pitch displacement of the endless strips 810a and 810b in the direction of the arrow V and corresponding to the spacing pitch "p" of two hooks 811a or 811b on one and the same chain, these are engaged at the beginning of the displacement pitch with the lateral edges 220a and 220b of the roof component I, equipped to this effect with said appropriate means fastening to the hooks 811a and 811b, so as to lift them subsequently above the storage area 600 by a pitch "p", in such a way that said roof component I and the previous ones which have been hooked in the same way by the previous hooks are stored in a stacked away in the storage area 600 as they are admitted to it. The pitch-by-pitch movement reverse to that of the arrow R of the endless strips 810a and 810b will provide the descent (reverse direction to that of the arrow V) for the purpose of discharging the roof components I from the storage area 600.
DDDR:: According to another embodiment shown in FIGS. 11a, 11b and 11c, the two endless strips 810a and 810b are provided over their widths with gripping mechanisms 811a and 811b placed opposite each other for each endless strip 810a and 810b so as to engage simultaneously (as can be seen in the drawing in FIGS. 11a, 11b and 11c) with the two longitudinal parallel edges 220a and 220b of each roof component I which is presented between them in the storage area 600. Apart from the fact that they are not configured in a chain as for the first embodiment, these gripping mechanisms 811a and 811b are, according to an embodiment of the invention shown in more detail in the drawing in FIG. 7, embodied in hooks which are adapted to engage with corresponding fastening means 221a (for example hooks turned downwards) on the parallel longitudinal edges 220a and 220b of the roof components I through the rotation (arrow R) of the endless strips 810a and 810b which provide a vertical linear displacement (arrow V) of the hooks 811a and 811b associated with it over the rectilinear portion of said strips. Thus, by activating the displacement of the endless strips 810a and 810b in the direction of the arrow V, these are engaged with the lateral edges 220a and 220b of the roof component I, equipped to this end with said appropriate means of fastening to the hooks 811a and 811b, so as to lift them subsequently above the storage area 600, so that said roof component I comes to rest on fixed bearing surfaces 820a and 820b with the previous roof components which have been brought in the same way by the previous movements of the hooks and in such a way that they are stored in a stacked away on said bearing surfaces 820a and 820b above the storage area 600 as they are admitted to it.
DDDR:: The loosening or retraction of the bearing surfaces associated with a pitch movement which is the reverse of that of the arrow R of the endless strips 810a and 810b will ensure descent (reverse direction to that of the arrow V) for the purpose of discharging the roof components I from the storage area 600.
DDDR:: In this embodiment, an endless movement of the hooks is not necessary since a simple to and fro movement between the bearing surfaces 820a and 820b and the roof component pickup position is sufficient.
DDDR:: It is conceivable to equip the lower ends of the endless strips 810a and 810b with strip guide means not shown which, by giving an angle of inclination to said hooks will improve their fastening and/or their unfastening with the longitudinal edges 200a and 220b of the roof components I at the low points of the conveyors 810a and 810b.
DDDR:: According to another particularly advantageous characteristic of the invention and as shown in the drawings in FIGS. 12, 13a, 13b, 13c and 13d, the aforementioned stowing means 800 are constituted by a support frame acting as a framework for at least two elevators, of which only 830a is shown, which, placed in the storage area 600 on either side of the stack of stacked up roof components I, are able to grip and vertically displace (arrow V), in the storage area 600, each roof component I in an upward movement in order to store them stacked one on top of the other by feeding them one under the other and in a downward movement (the reverse of that of the arrow V) to lay them and place them on the longitudinal edges of the pool so as to juxtapose them one next to the other.
DDDR:: As shown, the elevator 830a is constituted by two cranks 831a and 832a the synchronised rotation of which ensures the vertical movement (arrow V) upwards of the single roof component I or of the already stacked roof components I. As shown, the cranks 831a and 832a engage with the roof component present at storage area level 600 so as to run it from a low position to a high position as shown in the drawings in FIGS. 13a and 13b. This transfer from a low position (cf. FIG. 13a) to a high position (cf. FIG. 13b) allows, through the action of the mobility means, the input of a new roof component I at the level of the elevation means (cf. FIG. 13c) which, by a rotary movement, deposit the raised up roof components onto the roof components placed beneath and engage to transfer the unit formed by the two stacked roof components I from a low position (cf. FIG. 13d) to a high position and so on until the input of the last roof component on which the others will rest. This process is reversed when the roof components are to return to cover the pool.
DDDR:: In order to facilitate the engagement of the cranks with the roof components I, the latter are equipped with two supports of each longitudinal edge. In this way, said cranks 831a and 832a engage with blocks forming cams associated with each roof component I.
DDDR:: Additionally, to facilitate storage in the stacked position, each roof component I is fitted with blocks inserted between each stacked up roof component. These blocks are preformed to receive the running support means of each roof component such as the running gear 710a with which they are fitted and to keep them in position.
DDDR:: According to one particularly advantageous characteristic, the blocks and supports are merged into one and the same part 240 equipping each longitudinal edge of the roof components I in pairs.
DDDR:: Particular care has been taken over this part 240 both in its block function since it is inserted between the roof components and in its function as a cam support followed by the crank of the elevation means.
DDDR:: Thus, according to a preferred characteristic, the upper part of said parts 240 is preformed in a concave shape 241 into which the running gear 710a is fitted. As a consequence, the parts 240 are not only inserted in height between the roof components but also position them longitudinally.
DDDR:: The drawing in FIG. 13a shows an embodiment in which the crank 831a is to advantage fitted with a roller G the displacement path of which 242 is preformed in the lower part of the parts 240. This preforming is such that the part 240 and in consequence the roof component associated with it are positioned laterally relative to said roller G. The elevation means being constituted by two pairs of cranks placed on either side of the storage area, the lateral positioning of the roof component during its storage is optimised by means of this characteristic.
DDDR:: Additionally, according to the embodiment of shown in the drawing in FIG. 12, the parts 240 are stopped on the mechanical stop units 610. The parts 240 therefore also contribute to the longitudinal positioning of the roof components in their movement.
DDDR:: According to another particularly advantageous characteristic and as shown in the FIGS. 14a, 14b, 14c, 15a, 15b, 15c, 15d, these stowing means 800 are constituted by two ramps 840a and 840b which, placed in the storage area 600 on either side of the stack of stacked up roof components I, are able to vertically displace (arrow V), in the storage area 600, each roof component I in an upward movement to store them stacked up one on top of the other by means of a displacement of said roof components on the ramps by feeding them one underneath the other and in a downward movement (the reverse of that of the arrow V) so as to juxtapose them one next to the other. These two ramps 840a and 840b engage with pins projecting externally from the roof components (I) so as to make said roof components effect an upward movement and tilt as shown in FIG. 15 such that the stored roof components form an open angle opposite those coming to be supported on their lower surface. According to a preferred embodiment, said pins coming to be supported on said ramps 840a and 840b are those 230a and 230b gripping said mobility means 740a and 740b.
DDDR:: According to this characteristic and as shown particularly in FIG. 15c, the translatory motion imparted to the roof components and the inclination that they adopt when they are in displacement on the ramp or when they are stored allow the upward displacement of the roof components.
DDDR:: With regard to the fourth means 900, i.e. the means of connecting the roof components I to each other, they have been provided indissociable on the one hand so as to secure them to each other to form the roof component train I able, under the effect of the motor-drive rollers 720a of the mobility means, to be displaced in a horizontal linear movement (arrow H) along said pool, and dissociable one from the other on the other hand, so that said roof components I on entering the storage area 600 are able, under the effect of the rotation (arrow R) of the endless conveyors 810a and 810b and the hooks 811a and 811b subjected to them, to be displaced in a vertical linear movement (arrow V) causing their disassociation and their superposition in the storage area 600. Thus, the connection means 900 are such that, when the roof components I evolve in a horizontal linear movement of thrust or pulling (arrow H), they are indissociable so as to keep the roof components secured to each other and to form a roof component train, and when a roof component I enters the storage area 600 (cf. FIG. 4) under the effect of the thrust of the roof component train I, they become dissociable to allow stacking by admission from underneath of the others of the roof components in the storage area 600.
DDDR:: As shown here, the connection means 900 of the roof components I are also dissociable from each other on the one hand, to allow the roof components I (arrow A in FIG. 2) to articulate freely relative to the support edge S of the pool and indissociable on the other hand, to push in the direction of the arrow H, but also to bring back in the direction reverse from that of arrow H, all the roof components I secured to each other such that the presence of the motor-drive rollers 720a at the input of the storage area 600 is enough to draw outwards from the pool (in the direction of the arrow H) or to push inwards towards the pool (in the direction reverse to that of the arrow H) all the roof components I so as to allow the exposed position or the concealed position of the pool respectively.
DDDR:: An electronic automatic control system for the motors driving the drive rollers 720a and the motor cylinders of the endless strips 810a and 810b which, as a function of cleverly fitted final position detectors and a programmed control activated by the user, allows the horizontal linear (arrow H) and vertical (arrow V) movements of the roof components I to be orchestrated according to an operational cycle which consists in alternating the horizontal (arrow H) and vertical (arrow V) displacement times of the roof components I and according to pitches corresponding, on the one hand, to the spacing pitch "p" of two hooks 811a and 811b of one and the same chain for the vertical displacement (arrow V) of the endless strips 810a and 810b and of the roof components I associated with them and on the other hand, to a pitch at least equal to the width of the roof components I for the horizontal displacement (arrow H) of said roof components I activated by the motor-drive rollers 720a.
DDDR:: When the connection means are dissociated, the roof components I of the roof fitted with the device of the invention can also offer the conventional advantages of the low profile cover of the roof T by allowing the half-open position through the articulation A of said roof components I (as shown in the drawing in FIG. 2) on the support edge S of the pool.
DDDR:: According to a first preferential embodiment of the invention, the aforementioned connection means are constituted by the wings of arches 210 which, placed to project in the extension of the cover panels 100 in translucent material to ensure the sealed partial covering of the juxtaposed roof components I of the roof T in the closed position, are fitted with a removable device for fastening to the arch 210 of the contiguous roof component I. Thus, as shown in more detail in the drawings in FIGS. 10a and 10b, each of the aforementioned connection means of two contiguous arches given the reference 210r for the covered roof component and 210c for the covering roof component conventionally comprising projecting wings is constituted by a U-shaped profile 211 which, intended to conform to the shape of the rectangular lower profiles 212r and 212c of said two contiguous arches, is fastened to the rectangular profile 212r of the arches 210r of the covered roof component such that the rectangular profile 212c of the arch 210c of the covering roof component can be housed and inserted in the U-shaped profile 211 (cf. FIG. 10a) during the movement of lowering by articulation (reverse direction from the arrow A in FIG. 2) or by descent in the storage area 600 (reverse direction from the arrow V in FIGS. 5 and 9) of the covering roof component in the lowered position and conversely disengage itself from said U-shaped profile 211 (cf. FIG. 10b) during the articulation movement in the direction of the arrow A of the same roof components to a half-open position or of the elevation movement in the direction of the arrow V to stack it in the storage area 600. Preferably, the upper part of the branch 211a of the aforementioned U-shaped profile 211 not integral with the arch 210r of the covered roof component is flared so as to facilitate the engagement with play of the rectangular lower profile 212c of the arch 210c of the covering roof component during its movement of lowering to a juxtaposed position. Likewise, the number and length of said connection means constituted by said U-shaped profiles are liable to vary.
DDDR:: It goes without saying that the device described and shown above may be fitted out in a number of adaptations while remaining in the context of the present invention, adaptations which consist for example:
DDDR:: in adopting the same number of hooks 811a and 811b whatever the number of roof components I so as to standardise the manufacture of the conveyors 810a and 810b,
DDDR:: in not restricting the number of motor-drive rollers 720a when the swimming pool components are of larger dimension,
DDDR:: in providing guide rollers or counter guide rollers distributed over the length of the pool so as to guide the horizontal displacement (arrow H) of the roof components I,
DDDR:: etc.
CLI :: 1. A system for a swimming pool opening, the system comprising: a plurality of roof components, including a first roof component and a second roof component, each roof component including a cover, and a rigid frame including two arches, a first end crosspiece delimiting a first longitudinal edge-part configured to rest on a first longitudinal edge of the pool, and a second end crosspiece delimiting a second longitudinal edge-part configured to rest on a second longitudinal edge of the pool, the second longitudinal edge-part being parallel to the first longitudinal edge-part; a storage area located at an end of the pool the storage area being sufficient to accommodate a footprint of a roof component, allowing the roof components to be stored in a stacked way, all of the storage area being horizontally displaced from the pool opening, thereby exposing the swimming pool opening; a wheel configured to mobilize the roof components, allowing the roof components to be displaced horizontally in a linear movement direction along the pool towards and/or away from the storage area; a lifter in the storage area, the lifter being configured to engage the roof components to vertically displace the roof components, and place one roof component onto another roof component in a stacked position; and a convex member attached to a first roof component in the plurality of roof components and a concave member attached to a second roof component in the plurality of roof components, configured such that a vertical displacement of the concave member relative to the convex member acts to engage the first roof component with the second roof component, whereby the roof components can be juxtaposed such that the first longitudinal edge-part of the first roof component is on a first line parallel to the linear movement direction, the first longitudinal edge-part of the second roof component is on the first line parallel to the linear movement direction, the second longitudinal edge-part of the first roof component is on a second line parallel to the linear movement direction, and the second longitudinal edge-part of the second roof component is on the second line parallel to the linear movement direction, thereby covering the swimming pool opening.
CLD :: 2. A system according to claim 1, characterised in that the lifter comprises two conveyors which, placed inside the aforementioned storage means on either side of the stack of stored roof components, are able to grip and vertically displace inside the latter each roof component in an upward movement to store them stacked one on top of the other and in a downward movement to deposit them on the longitudinal edges of the pool in order to juxtapose them one next to the other.
CLD :: 3. A system according to claim 1, characterised in that the lifter comprises two ramps which, placed in the storage area on either side of the stack of stacked roof components, are able to vertically displace in the storage area each roof component in an upward movement to store them stacked one on top of the other by means of a displacement of said components on the ramps by feeding them one underneath the other and in a downward movement so as to juxtapose them one next to the other.
CLD :: 4. A system according to claim 3, characterised in that these two ramps engage with pins projecting externally from the roof components so as to make said components effect an upward movement and a tilt such that the stored roof components form an open angle opposite those coming to be supported on their lower surface by displacement imparted by said mobility means.
CLD :: 5. A system according to claim 1, characterised in that the aforementioned mobility means of said roof components allowing them to be displaced horizontally along the pool towards and/or away from said storage means are constituted: by running gear which, distributed over the width of the two parallel longitudinal edges of each roof component, ensures the free displacement of the edges along the edge, and therefore of the whole of the component associated with it, by a motor-drive roller which, placed at the input of the aforementioned storage means, is supported on the roof component present in front of them so as to run it in a direction outwards from the pool to make it completely enter the aforementioned storage means so as to disengage it from the pool which it was covering and to store it in the latter in a stacked way or, in the other direction inwards towards the pool, so as to discharge it from the storage area by pushing the other components which, in the form of a train of juxtaposed components, will gradually cover the pool opening.
CLD :: 6. A system according to claim 1, characterised in that the aforementioned mobility means of said roof components allowing them to be displaced horizontally along the pool towards and/or away from said storage means, include a horizontal drive endless strip which, placed at the input of the aforementioned storage means, engage with the roof component present in front of them so as to run it in a direction outwards from the pool to make it completely enter the aforementioned storage means so as to disengage it from the pool which it was covering and to store it in the latter in a stacked way or, in the other direction inwards towards the pool, so as to discharge it from the storage means by pushing the other components which, in the form of a train of juxtaposed components, will gradually cover the pool opening.
CLD :: 7. A system according to claim 1, further including a pinion being drawn into rotation by a fixed geared motor unit and the rack being integral with the longitudinal edge of the roof component.
CLD :: 8. A system according to claim 1, further including blocks inserted between each stacked roof component.
CLD :: 9. A system according to claim 1 wherein the arch of the covering component is fitted with a wing placed to project in the extension of the panels to provide the sealed partial covering of the arch of the juxtaposed covered component of the roof in the closed position, characterised in that each of the aforementioned connection means of two contiguous arches for the covered roof component and for the covering roof component of the roof components is constituted by a U-shaped profile which, intended to conform to the shape of the rectangular lower profiles of said two contiguous arches, is fastened to the rectangular profile of the arch of the covered component such that the rectangular profile of the arch of the covering component can be housed and inserted in the U-shaped profile during the movement of lowering the covering component into the closed position and conversely to disengage itself from said U-shaped profile during the movement of lifting the same component towards the open position.
CLD :: 10. A system according to claim 9 characterised in that the concave member is flared so as to facilitate the engagement with play of the concave member with the convex member.
CLD :: 11. A system according to claim 1 characterised in that the two conveyors of the aforementioned stowing means are each constituted by an endless strip drawn in rotation around two return cylinders in the upper and lower part of the conveyors of the aforementioned storage means and one of which is a drive cylinder to drive the endless strip around said cylinders.
CLD :: 12. A system according to claim 11 characterised in that the endless strips of the two conveyors of the aforementioned stowing means are provided over their width with a chain of gripping mechanisms placed opposite each other for each endless strip so as to engage simultaneously with the two longitudinal parallel edges of each roof component which is presented between them in the storage area.
CLD :: 13. A system according to claim 12 characterised in that the aforementioned gripping mechanisms are embodied in hooks which are evenly spaced out by a pitch "p" one from the other, and adapted so as to engage with corresponding fastening means on the longitudinal parallel edges of the roof components to allow the latter to be fastened or unfastened through the rotation of the endless strips which ensures a linear vertical displacement of the hooks associated with it over the rectilinear portion of said endless strips.
CLD :: 14. A system according to claim 5 characterised in that the aforementioned mobility means include two motor-drive rollers to ensure the horizontal displacements of the roof components by being supported on the two longitudinal edges of said roof components.
CLD :: 15. A system according to claim 14 characterised in that the axes of rotation of the aforementioned motor-drive rollers of the aforementioned mobility means are placed substantially inclined relative to the vertical and inwards towards the pool in such a way that the treads of said motor rollers are supported on the longitudinal edges of the roof components while guiding the horizontal displacement of said components.
CLD :: 16. A system according to claim 1 characterised in that it includes an electronic automatic control system for the motors driving the drive rollers and the motor cylinders of the endless strips which, as a function of final position detectors and a programmed control activated by the user, allows the horizontal linear and vertical displacements of the roof components to be orchestrated according to an operational cycle which comprises alternating the horizontal and vertical displacement times of the roof components and according to pitches corresponding: for the vertical displacement of the endless strips and of the components associated with them, to the spacing pitch "p" of two hooks on one and the same chain, for the horizontal displacement of said components activated by the motor-drive rollers, to a pitch at least equal to the width of the roof components.
CLD :: 17. A system according to claim 1 wherein the lifter includes a conveyor.
CLD :: 18. A system according to claim 17 wherein the conveyor includes two endless strips.
CLD :: 19. A system according to claim 1 wherein the lifter includes a ramp.
CLD :: 20. A system according to claim 1 wherein the lifter is configured to vertically displace the roof components by revolving the roof components about a horizontal axis.
CLD :: 21. A system according to claim 1 wherein the wheel and the lifter are configured to cooperate so as to horizontally displace a first roof component into the storage area; subsequently, vertically displace the first roof component in the storage area; subsequently, horizontally displace a second roof component into a position under the first roof component in the storage area; and subsequently, place the first roof component onto the second roof component in the storage area.
CLD :: 22. A system according to claim 21 wherein the lifter is configured to vertically displace the first roof component by revolving the first roof component about a horizontal axis.
CLD :: 23. A system according to claim 1 wherein the wheel and the lifter are configured to cooperate so as to horizontally displace a first roof component into the storage area; subsequently, vertically displace the first roof component in the storage area; subsequently, horizontally displace a second roof component into a position under the first roof component in the storage area; subsequently, place the first roof component onto the second roof component in the storage area; and subsequently, vertically displace a unit formed be the first and second roof components.
CLD :: 24. A system according to claim 23 wherein the lifter is configured to vertically displace the first roof component by revolving the first roof component about a horizontal axis.
ENDRECORD
TITL:: Spas and bathing systems with upgradeable and interchangeable jet stations
DTYP:: pat
ATYP:: utility
PTNO:: 08661576
ISDT:: 20140304
APNO:: 13053167
APDT:: 20110321
PBNO:: 
PBDT:: 
AGAP:: 1079
AGPB:: 
AGAL:: 3421
INVS:: LUDLOW DAVID J.|ROBINS ALAN L.|TAYLOR TRENT L.|CHRISTMAN DERRICK P.|ADAMS MICHAEL J.|FLEISCHER STEPHEN M.|EDDINGTON RICHARD ALEX|HOWELL MARVIN H.
APLS:: LUDLOW DAVID J.|ROBINS ALAN L.|TAYLOR TRENT L.|CHRISTMAN DERRICK P.|ADAMS MICHAEL J.|FLEISCHER STEPHEN M.|EDDINGTON RICHARD ALEX|HOWELL MARVIN H.
LREP:: FIENE AMY|SONNTAG JAMES
ASSE:: 
EXMR:: BAKER LORI
NCLS:: 12
NCLI:: 3
NCLD:: 9
NFIG:: 34
DSCL:: 11875
SUML:: 1371
BKGL:: 631
DDRL:: 831
DDSL:: 10830
CLFL:: 173
CLIL:: 174
CLDL:: 132
NREF:: 13
NRFA:: 3
NRFX:: 10
IPCC:: A-A-47-K-3-00-F-I
USCC::   45411||  4492|2395874|  45416|  45411|  45411|  45416|  45411|  45411|  45416|  4584|  45411||  4538||  45416||  4665||  4613||192 5862||417223||417319|
SFLD::   45411|  4538|  45416|  4665|  4613|192 5862|417223|417319
RLDX:: CIP:11738911:20070423:13053167|CON:PCT/US2004/034714:20041021:11738911|XXX:20110225720:20110922
NRLD:: 3
NPRV:: 0
NPCT:: 1
ABST:: A bathing system with a molded shell has hollows in the shell. A canister installed in each hollow with jets mounted upon the front jet plate of the canister. The canister is of simple construction that is mounted in a hollow and is removable and interchangeable for easy upgrading and repair of the bathing system.
DHXX:: CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
DDXX:: This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/738,911, filed Apr. 23, 2007, now U.S. Pat. No. 7,908,684 which is a continuation of International Application filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty Number PCT/US2004/034714, filed Oct. 21, 2004, both of which are incorporated by reference.
DHXX:: FEDERAL RESEARCH STATEMENT
DDXX:: (Not applicable)
DHBK:: BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
DDBK:: An advance in the construction of spas has been the development of modular construction systems that allow for easier upgrading and repair of water jet systems in a spa. These modular systems are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5,754,989, issued 26 May 1998, titled "PLUMBING AND SHELL SYSTEM FOR SPA"; U.S. Pat. No. 6,092,246, issued 25 Jul. 2000, titled "PLUMBING AND SHELL SYSTEM FOR SPA"; U.S. Pat. No. 6,000,073, issued 14 Dec. 1999, titled "JET ZONE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM FOR SPAS"; U.S. Pat. No. 5,987,663, issued 23 Nov. 1999, "MODULAR SYSTEM FOR SPAS AND BATHING SYSTEMS"; U.S. Pat. No. 6,256,805, issued 1 Jul. 2001, titled "MODULAR SYSTEM FOR SPAS AND BATHING SYSTEMS"; and U.S. Pat. No. 6,543,067, issued 8 Apr. 2003, titled "INTEGRATED MANIFOLD SYSTEM FOR SPAS". These patents provide background, and are hereby incorporated by reference.
DDBK:: In these modular systems a shell is constructed with depressions or hollows in the shell wall. Each of the hollows is fitted with a modular unit, here referred to as a modular unit (also called JetPak:ux2122;). The modular unit comprises a cover for the hollow upon which are mounted jets for injecting water into the spa containment. A water inlet line extends through the shell to provide a water supply for the jets. To remove the jets (for replacement, repair, or for an upgrade to different jets), the water supply lines for the jets are disconnected from the water supply and the cover is removed. To allow disconnecting of the water inlet line from the modular unit, a manifold is provided that has unions for disconnection and reconnection to the water inlet line. The manifold also has ports for water supply lines to multiple jets, and an air supply manifold with ports for air supply lines to the jets.
DDBK:: The water supply system of the spa comprises one or more water inlet lines with multiple modular units connected through their respective manifolds in series along a water supply line. The supply line usually enters the hollow above the water line, which eases access to the manifold. The water inlet line enters the hollow and is connected to the manifold through the union. A water exit is usually provided through a union connection to the manifold and a water line that becomes the water inlet line for the next modular unit in the water supply circuit.
DDBK:: This modular system has several advantages, including the ability to upgrade, replace, interchange, or customize the jet system without destructive alteration of the shell. In addition, the joints at which water leaks are likely to occur are in regions that communicate with the shell water containment. Accordingly, most leaks are benign, which contrasts with traditional spa designs where all of the water supply is under the spa shell, and almost any leak will discharge water into insulation under-the shell and on the floor under the spa.
DDBK:: While the modular spa systems have many advantages, there are yet some difficulties. The water supply system of the modular spa is comparatively complex since each modular unit must include an assembly of a manifold with sealing connections to inlet and outlet water lines, several separate water lines from the manifold to each jet, and several air lines from an air supply manifold. This complexity and multiplicity of parts leads to higher manufacturing costs for the materials and higher labor cost in the assembly.
DDBK:: A simplified construction that provides the advantages of a modular spa, but has a simpler construction and is less expensive to build would be an advance in the art.
DHSM:: SUMMARY OF INVENTION
DDSM:: The present invention involves a bathing system comprising a shell molded to define a containment for containing water. The invention may be used in any suitable bathing system, such as a spa, bath or shower in which people or animals are massaged or bathed by water injected from jets or water agitated by injection of water through jets.
DDSM:: In the containment of the shell of the bathing system of the invention one or more depressions or hollows are molded into the shell. In the hollow is a water connector connected to a water supply system. A canister is dimensioned to fit in the hollow. The front surface of the canister is constructed as a jet plate, upon which is mounted one or more jets. When the canister is installed in the hollow the jets are disposed to inject water into the containment. The canister also has a water port that registers with and communicates with a water connection in the hollow. The canister has structure for water communication between the water port and the jets mounted on the canister wall, such that the jets are supplied with pressurized water from the water supply, through the water connection in the hollow, and the canister water port.
DDSM:: The canister is designed to be reversibly removable. By "reversibly removable" is meant that the canister can be installed, removed, and reinstalled without destruction of a component, usually by hand and without special tools. The intent is to permit an untrained consumer of average skill and physical ability to remove a canister and replace it with the same or another canister without the consumption or destruction of parts. Preferably, this can be accomplished by hand without tools, but it is contemplated that an ordinary tool (e.g., adjustable wrench or pliers, screw driver, etc.) may be used, particularly when the system is stuck or the user is not physically strong. Accordingly, fittings that are glued, welded or fitted with fasteners that required a customized or special tool would not be considered reversibly removable. In addition, fittings and fasteners that are not ordinarily intended to be accessed by the consumer would also not be considered reversibly removable. This contrasts with mechanical systems that are designed to be removed and replaced by dealer or shop personnel. These dealer systems designed for dealers often require training, special tools and skills.
DDSM:: In a preferred aspect of the invention, the jets are also provided with an air supply so that air can be injected from the jet along with the water. An air supply or source may be accessed through an air port in the canister that has air communication with an air inlet of each jet. There is a corresponding air connector in the hollow connected to the air supply so that when the canister is in an installed position in the hollow the air connector and the air port register in a manner to form a continuous air supply conduit from the air source to the jet. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the canister is preferably enclosed with a pod-like enclosed body, with only a single water inlet port and a single air inlet port. The structure for connecting the water port and the air port to the jet or jets on the jet plate is enclosed in the body of the canister. For interchangeability, canisters are manufactured with standard dimensions, so that canisters of different jet configuration can fit in the same standardized hollow. This involves making the canisters where certain external dimensions are the same, and where the water port and air port placement is the same. For interchangeability, the bathing system usually has more than one hollow with multiple hollows with dimensions standardized sufficiently to conform to a canister type. With this construction, using one or more standard hollow designs, the bathing system can be easily upgraded or repaired with new jets by an easy hand replacement of the canister with a new one with the same or different jets. In addition, the canister can be easily moved to another position in the bathing system.
DDSM:: A hollow or hollows are placed in the spa at each jet station. A jet station may include one or more of, for example, a reclining or back-rest surface, leg supports and massage, foot supports, foot massage stations, and foot wells. In addition, a hollow may be designed to hold more than one canister. For example, along the back rest surfaces of the benches in the spa, a jet station on the back reclining surface may be provided by a hollow containing a single canister. However, the canister can be divided so that hollow contains more than one canister to, for example, provide jet stations for the legs and the feet. A spa may have multiple occurrences of one or more different hollow configurations with the same hollow configuration at similar jet stations. For example, corner stations, side stations, foot stations, leg stations, etc., may all be in a spa in one or more locations. All similarly placed stations, for example, all of the side stations, have the same hollow configuration.
DDSM:: The internal structure of the canister has preferably a simple and inexpensive construction. Repair and upgrading of the spa jets is accomplished by removing and replacing the canister, and the consumer is not required to repair or otherwise modify the canister itself. The system for conveying water and air from the water and air ports to the jets may be by separate lines, but is preferably provided by internal cavities or chambers. For example, water can be conveyed through one or more pressurized chambers to the jets. The jets can be constructed with water and air inlets extending directly into or otherwise communicating with the chambers. The water and air chambers are supplied by the respective water and air inlet ports in the canister.
DDSM:: The canister has a front jet plate or panel upon which jets are mounted. When the canister is in the hollow, the jet plate surface corresponds to the visible surface inside the spa. For example, a jet plate can be configured as a reclining surface for a back, leg, or foot. In can also be designed to be adjacent to a body part for directing water for massaging the body part, such as for jets in a foot or leg well, or jets on an arm rest for the arms, or for the side of the torso. The jet plate is generally facing into the containment to allow a user to recline against the surface, or place a portion of the body near the jet plate. Water jets are designed for a therapeutic or relaxing effect to the user by ejecting water or creating a massaging effect against the body surface of the user that is upon or adjacent to the jet plate. The jet plate surface can be configured to provide a reclining or massaging surface for any part of the body, such as the back, neck, legs, arms, or feet, or any other body surface for which the relaxing and therapeutic effect of the jets is desired.
DDSM:: The jets may be of conventional construction mounted in the front panel or jet plate in any suitable manner. In addition, the water and air can be supplied though the canister to the jets in any suitable manner. For example, in a dual chambered design (water chamber and air chamber), which is described in detail below, the jets extend through the jet plate and through the chambers, with jet water and air inlets appropriately located in the correct chamber. In this embodiment there is no connecting of water and air lines for each separate jet, thus simplifying the construction of the canister.
DDSM:: In an aspect of the invention, all the jets in the canister are molded or mounted on a jet plate that can be interchangeably removed from the canister. Accordingly, a jet can be upgraded by changing the jet plate instead of the entire canister. In addition, canisters can be made to one standard design with only the interchangeable jet plates to provide various jet configurations.
DHDR:: BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
DDDR:: FIG. 1 is a schematic view of a water distribution system and removable canister system of the invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 2 is a perspective view of an example of a spa of the invention.
DDDR:: FIG. 3 is the view of FIG. 2 with selected canisters removed from hollows.
DDDR:: FIG. 4 is a detail view of a jet station.
DDDR:: FIG. 5 is a detail view as in FIG. 4 showing removal of the canister.
DDDR:: FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional view of an exemplary jet station.
DDDR:: FIG. 7 is a view as in FIG. 6 showing removal of the canister.
DDDR:: FIG. 8 is detail view showing a locking ridge between a canister and the hollow.
DDDR:: FIG. 9a and FIG. 9b are perspective views showing application of the invention to a different bathing system.
DDDR:: FIG. 10a and FIG. 10b are perspective views showing application of the invention to yet a different bathing system.
DDDR:: FIG. 11 is a cross-sectional view of another exemplary jet station.
DDDR:: FIG. 12 is a view as in FIG. 11 showing removal of the canister.
DDDR:: FIG. 13 is a detail view showing an example of water and air ports of a canister and corresponding water and air connectors in a hollow.
DDDR:: FIG. 14 is a cross-sectional view of a portion of a canister and hollow showing an example of a system using an integrated water/air port and an integrated water/air connector.
DDDR:: FIG. 15 is a cross-sectional view of a portion of a canister and hollow showing an example quick-connect water connector and water port assembly.
DDDR:: FIG. 16 is a cross-section of a canister and also showing the canister in a hollow.
DDDR:: FIG. 17 is a cross-section of an alternate canister construction.
DDDR:: FIG. 18 is a cross-section of another alternate canister construction.
DDDR:: FIGS. 19a and 19b are respectively a cross-section of another alternate canister construction, and a view of the jet plate.
DDDR:: FIG. 20 is a cross-section of another canister construction.
DDDR:: FIG. 21 is a cross-section of yet another canister construction.
DDDR:: FIG. 22 is cross-section of a portion of a canister showing a removable jet plate.
DDDR:: FIG. 23 is a cross-section of an alternate canister construction with a removable jet plate.
DDDR:: FIG. 24 is a cross-section of an alternate canister construction with a removable jet plate.
DDDR:: FIG. 25 is a schematic of a segmented or subdivided canister design.
DDDR:: FIG. 26 is a perspective view of a jet pack system that includes a secure feature.
DDDR:: FIG. 27 is a perspective view of the jet pack system attached to the secure feature.
DDDR:: FIG. 28 is a perspective view showing\ the port ring, main conduit, and casing.
DDDR:: FIG. 29 is a perspective view of a flow regulator.
DDDR:: FIG. 30 is a perspective view of flow control.
DDDR:: FIG. 31 is a perspective view of a monitor wheel of the flow control exposed on the outer face of the jet panel.
DHDD:: DETAILED DESCRIPTION
DDDD:: Reference now made to FIG. 1, which is a schematic diagram of an aspect of the invention. Water is drawn from the containment 105 through a drain 125, pumped through a water distribution or supply system 131 by pump 130 to each of the jet stations 109.
DDDD:: In conventional prior-art spa construction, water and air are supplied to the jet by separate supply lines that are respectively connected to a pressurized water circulation system and an air supply system. At stations where there are several jets, the result is a tangle of several water and air supply lines, as each jet requires its own set of lines. In the prior-art modular spa systems, jets are mounted on a modular unit that is supplied by a single water supply line, but within the modular unit, each jet is supplied by separate water supply lines from a water manifold. The air supply is usually also provided by separate air supply lines, one to each jet. For a reclining station with several jets, this multitude of supply lines can become complex and expensive and become more difficult to repair and maintain.
DDDD:: In contrast to traditional spa construction, the present invention comprises an interchangeable canister construction that allows for a single water feed and a single air feed instead of multiple feed lines.
DDDD:: Referring again to FIG. 1, the water distribution system 131 functions to carry water to water connectors 133, with a water connector 133 disposed in the hollow 129 at each station. The water jets 119 are mounted on a jet plate 117 that is part of a removable and interchangeable canister 127a, 127b or modular unit. There is a canister for each station 109. As illustrated for canister 127a, the canister is removable, and includes a water port 135 than connects to the water connector 133 when the canister is in the hollow. If air is required for the jets in the canister, air can be provided through an air supply system 139. The air supply system may be external to the canister, as in 127a, and connect to the canister by mean of an air connector 141 in the hollow connecting to an air port 143 on the canister. The external air supply system may be in any suitable location in the spa system and may comprise an inlet structure open to the atmosphere, or be a compressed air source, such as a compressor or compressed air tank. Alternately, the air supply system 139 can be incorporated into the canister, as in 127b, and be any suitable structure such as an opening to the atmosphere. The canister incorporates an integral jet water distribution system 137 to convey water from the water port 135 to the jets 119, and an integral jet air distribution system 145 to convey air from the air port 143 to the jets 119.
